html: nan
title: 商务部办公厅关于请做好内外资不合理 差别待遇专项清理工作的函
resulting_text: 为深入贯彻 落实 党中央、国务院部署， 严格落实外商投资法， 常态化推进外资领域法治 建设 ， 根据 有关 工作要求， 由商务部 组织对 含有 内外资不合理差别待遇 内容的规定及措施 进行专项清理。 具体 安排 如下： 一、工作目标 坚决贯彻落实习近平总书记关于 “ 更大力度吸引和利用外资 ”“ 落实好外资企业国民待遇 ”“ 稳住外贸外资基本盘 ” 等重要指示精神，落实全国人大常委会开展外商投资法实施情况执法检查提出的整改要求，严格执行外商投资法及其实施条例的有关规定，按照 有关 要求，进一步深入清理可能存在的歧视外资企业的法规文件、政策措施，为外资企业营造更加公平的市场竞争环境，稳定外商在华长期投资的预期和信心，更加积极有效利用外资服务构建新发展格局。 二、 清理范围 （一） 各地区人民政府、各部门出台的现行有效的法规、规章、规范性文件 、 其他政策措施 。 （二） 各地区人民政府、各部门 直属事业单位、业务 主管 社会团体制定的与经营主体相关的各类 措施 。 三、清理事项 （一）在内外资平等准入领域设置或采取针对外资的限制性措施，对外资企业经营活动造成障碍或形成负担。例如，某行业外资企业申请行政许可比内资企业申请时间更长、所需材料更多、要求更严。 （二）通过限定“品牌”或以“外资品牌”为由排斥或歧视外资企业及其产品或服务，以及对外资企业及其产品或服务享受政策设置额外条件。例如，某地出台新能源汽车消费促进政策，规定对消费者购买并使用自主品牌新能源汽车给予补贴。 （三）通过限定所有制形式等方式排斥或限制外资企业参加本地招投标、政府采购等活动。例如，某行业协会制定该行业工程项目的评标办法中设置所有制类型打分栏，对内资企业打 1 分、对合资企业打 0.5 分，对外商独资企业打 0 分，影响外资企业平等参与招投标。 （四）在政策执行中变相歧视外资企业。例如，某地在落实财政奖补等政策时，以内部文件形式出台实施细则并“点对点”通知国有、民营企业申请政策支持，导致外资企业无法公平享受助企政策。 （五）事业单位、社会团体从事与经营主体相关工作中排斥或歧视外资企业及其产品或服务。例如，某行业协会受权组织实施某一专项计划，负责对经营主体开展评估并授予注册标识，虽无明文规定，但实践中从未受理外资企业的申请。 （六）其他可能含有内外资不合理差别待遇的规定及措施。 四、相关 工作 （一） 各地区、各部门及所属单位开展全面排查，对含有内外资不合理差别待遇内容的 法规文件和政策措施 进行清理 ，及时 公布清理结果，做好宣传解读，并将相关情况反馈商务部。 （二） 为深入 了解 实践中存在的内外资不合理差别待遇情况 ， 欢迎社会各界 通过 互联网等方式向商务部提供 相关 线索 、反映相关问题 ， 我们 将及时与相关 地区、部门 对接 ，推动后续工作 。 问题线索反映渠道： 外资企业问题诉求收集办理系 统 https://wzxxbg.mofcom.gov.cn/wzWtsq/un/register 邮箱 wzszhc@mofcom.gov.cn 商务部办公厅 2023 年 10 月 20 日
input_url: 20231109005802/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202311/20231103452139.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20231109133112/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202311/20231103452139.shtml
date: 2023-11-09 00:00:00
translated_title: Letter from the General Office of the Ministry of Commerce on the Special Cleaning-up Work of Unreasonable Differential Treatment between Domestic and Foreign Investors
translated_content: In order to implement the deployment of the CPC Central Committee and the State Council, strictly implement the Foreign Investment Law, and promote the rule of law in the field of foreign investment on a regular basis, the Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) has organized a special clean-up of provisions and measures containing unreasonable differences in the treatment of domestic and foreign investors in accordance with the requirements of the relevant work. The specific arrangements are as follows: I. Objectives Firmly implement the spirit of General Secretary Xi Jinping's important instructions on "attracting and utilizing foreign investment with greater efforts", "implementing national treatment for foreign-funded enterprises", and "stabilizing foreign trade and foreign investment", as well as the spirit of the National People's Congress (NPC). " and other important instructions, implement the rectification requirements put forward by the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress in carrying out the law enforcement inspection of the implementation of the Foreign Investment Law, strictly implement the relevant provisions of the Foreign Investment Law and its implementing regulations, and, in accordance with the relevant requirements, further thoroughly clean up the regulations and documents, policies and measures that may be discriminatory against foreign-invested enterprises, so as to create a fairer environment for foreign-invested enterprises to compete in the market. This will help create a fairer market competition environment for foreign-funded enterprises, stabilize the expectation and confidence of foreign investors in long-term investment in China, and more actively and effectively utilize foreign investment to serve the construction of a new development pattern. Scope of Clearance (1) Currently effective regulations, rules, normative documents and other policies and measures issued by the people's governments and departments of all regions. (b) Various measures formulated by the people's governments of various regions, institutions directly under the departments, and social organizations in charge of business related to business entities. (a) Setting up or adopting restrictive measures against foreign investment in the field of equal access for domestic and foreign investment, which create obstacles or burdens to the business activities of foreign-invested enterprises. For example, the application for administrative licenses by foreign-funded enterprises in a certain industry takes longer, requires more materials and imposes stricter requirements than the application by domestic-funded enterprises. (ii) Excluding or discriminating against foreign-funded enterprises and their products or services by limiting them to "brands" or using "foreign-funded brands" as a justification, as well as setting additional conditions for foreign-funded enterprises and their products or services to enjoy the policy. For example, a certain place has introduced a policy to promote the consumption of new energy vehicles, stipulating that consumers will be subsidized for purchasing and using new energy vehicles of their own brand. (iii) Excluding or restricting foreign-funded enterprises from participating in local bidding and government procurement activities by limiting the form of ownership. For example, an industry association has set up a scoring column for the type of ownership in the bid evaluation method for projects in the industry, with 1 point for domestic enterprises, 0.5 points for joint ventures and 0 points for wholly foreign-owned enterprises, thus affecting the equal participation of foreign-funded enterprises in bidding and tendering. (d) Discrimination against foreign-funded enterprises in the implementation of policies. For example, when implementing policies such as financial incentives and subsidies, a certain place issued implementation rules in the form of internal documents and notified state-owned and private enterprises "point to point" to apply for policy support, resulting in foreign-funded enterprises not being able to enjoy the policy of assisting enterprises in a fair manner. (e) Exclusion of or discrimination against foreign-funded enterprises and their products or services in the work of institutions and social organizations in relation to business entities. For example, an industry association is authorized to organize and implement a special plan, responsible for evaluating and granting registration marks to business entities, which is not expressly provided for, but in practice has never accepted applications from foreign-funded enterprises. (vi) Other provisions and measures that may contain unreasonable differences in treatment between domestic and foreign capital. (a) All regions, departments and their subordinate units shall carry out a comprehensive investigation and clean up the regulations, documents and policies and measures that contain unreasonable differential treatment between domestic and foreign capital, announce the results of the cleanup in a timely manner, do a good job of publicity and interpretation, and feedback the relevant information to the MOFCOM. (b) In order to gain a deeper understanding of the unreasonable differential treatment of domestic and foreign capital in practice, all sectors of the society are welcome to provide relevant clues and reflect relevant problems to the MOFCOM through the Internet or other means, and we will promptly liaise with relevant regions and departments to promote the follow-up work. Channels for Reflecting Problem Clues: Foreign-funded Enterprises' Problems and Requests Collection and Handling System https://wzxxbg.mofcom.gov.cn/wzWtsq/un/register E-mail wzszhc@mofcom.gov.cn General Office of the Ministry of Commerce October 20, 2023
english_summary: The Ministry of Commerce of China is conducting a special clean-up of provisions and measures that contain unreasonable differences in the treatment of domestic and foreign investors. This is to promote the rule of law in foreign investment and create a fairer market competition environment for foreign-funded enterprises. The clean-up targets regulations, rules, and policies that may contain discriminatory measures against foreign-invested enterprises.
