html: nan
title: 驻非盟使团林治勇公参出席非洲共同农业园区项目投资者圆桌会议
resulting_text: 2月17日，驻非盟使团林治勇公参出席非洲共同农业园区项目投资者圆桌会议。 林治勇宣介了中共二十大关于加快建设农业强国等发展战略，表示农业合作是中非合作论坛和“一带一路”倡议的重要内容。中国已在非洲援建了20多个农业技术示范中心。中方通过促进非洲农产品输华、培训农业技术人才、派遣农业专家等多种方式支持非洲农业发展。未来，中方将把包括非洲共同农业园区项目（CAAPs）在内的非洲国家农业发展纳入中非农业合作整体规划，不断推动中非农业合作走深走实，为非洲粮食安全和经济社会发展作出新的贡献。 会议由非盟委员会、非洲进出口银行、非洲大陆自贸区秘书处等共同主办，来自非洲国家、非盟委员会及相关机构、伙伴国家和国际组织等代表约100人参加会议。
input_url: 20230224015830/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202302/20230203392017.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230226155843/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202302/20230203392017.shtml
date: 2023-02-24 00:00:00
translated_title: Minister Counselor Lin Zhiyong of the Mission to the AU attends the Roundtable of Investors of the Common African Agricultural Park (CAAP) Project
translated_content: On February 17, Mr. Lin Zhiyong, Minister Counselor of the Mission to the African Union, attended the roundtable meeting of investors of the African Common Agricultural Park (ACAP) project. Mr. Lin Zhiyong introduced the development strategies of the 20th CPC National Congress on accelerating the construction of a strong agricultural country, saying that agricultural cooperation is an important part of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) and the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). China has built more than 20 agricultural technology demonstration centers in Africa. China has supported Africa's agricultural development by promoting the export of African agricultural products to China, training agricultural technicians and dispatching agricultural experts. In the future, China will incorporate the agricultural development of African countries, including the Common African Agricultural Parks Project (CAAPs), into the overall planning of China-Africa agricultural cooperation, and continuously promote China-Africa agricultural cooperation to go deeper and deeper, so as to make new contributions to Africa's food security and economic and social development. The meeting was co-hosted by the AUC, the African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank) and the Secretariat of the African Continental Free Trade Area (FTAA), and was attended by about 100 representatives from African countries, the AUC and related agencies, partner countries and international organizations.
english_summary: Minister Counselor Lin Zhiyong of the Mission to the AU attended the Roundtable of Investors of the Common African Agricultural Park (CAAP) Project. He introduced the development strategies of the 20th CPC National Congress on accelerating the construction of a strong agricultural country and the significance of agricultural cooperation in the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) and the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). China has supported Africa's agricultural development through various means, such as promoting the export of African agricultural products to China, training agricultural technicians, and dispatching agricultural experts. China will continue to integrate the agricultural development of African countries, including the Common African Agricultural Parks Project (CAAPs), into the overall planning of China-Africa agricultural cooperation, to continuously enhance cooperation and make new contributions to Africa's food security and economic and social development. The meeting was co-hosted by the AUC, the African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank), and the Secretariat of the African Continental Free Trade Area (FTAA), with about 100 representatives from African countries, the AUC, related agencies, partner countries, and international organizations attending.
