html: nan
title: 商务部 海关总署关于公布《出口许可证管理货物目录（2023年）》的公告
resulting_text: 依据《中华人民共和国对外贸易法》《中华人民共和国货物进出口管理条例》《消耗臭氧层物质管理条例》《货物出口许可证管理办法》等法律、行政法规和规章，现公布《出口许可证管理货物目录（2023年）》（以下简称为目录）和有关事项。 一、许可证的申领 （一）2023年实行许可证管理的出口货物为43种，详见目录。对外贸易经营者出口目录内所列货物的，应向商务部或者商务部委托的地方商务主管部门申请取得《中华人民共和国出口许可证》（以下简称出口许可证），凭出口许可证向海关办理通关验放手续。 （二）出口活牛（对港澳）、活猪（对港澳）、活鸡（对香港）、小麦、玉米、大米、小麦粉、玉米粉、大米粉、药料用人工种植麻黄草、煤炭、原油、成品油（不含润滑油、润滑脂、润滑油基础油）、锯材、棉花的，凭配额证明文件申领出口许可证；出口甘草及甘草制品、蔺草及蔺草制品的，凭配额招标中标证明文件申领出口许可证。 （三）以加工贸易方式出口第二款所列货物的，凭配额证明文件、货物出口合同申领出口许可证。其中，出口甘草及甘草制品、蔺草及蔺草制品的，凭配额招标中标证明文件、海关加工贸易进口报关单申领出口许可证。 （四）以边境小额贸易方式出口第二款所列货物的，由省级地方商务主管部门根据商务部下达的边境小额贸易配额和要求签发出口许可证。以边境小额贸易方式出口甘草及甘草制品、蔺草及蔺草制品、消耗臭氧层物质、摩托车（含全地形车）及其发动机和车架、汽车（包括成套散件）及其底盘等货物的，需按规定申领出口许可证。以边境小额贸易方式出口本款上述情形以外的货物的，免于申领出口许可证。 （五）出口活牛（对港澳以外市场）、活猪（对港澳以外市场）、活鸡（对香港以外市场）、牛肉、猪肉、鸡肉、天然砂（含标准砂）、矾土、磷矿石、镁砂、滑石块（粉）、萤石（氟石）、稀土、锡及锡制品、钨及钨制品、钼及钼制品、锑及锑制品、焦炭、成品油（润滑油、润滑脂、润滑油基础油）、石蜡、部分金属及制品、硫酸二钠、碳化硅、消耗臭氧层物质、柠檬酸、白银、铂金（以加工贸易方式出口）、铟及铟制品、摩托车（含全地形车）及其发动机和车架、汽车（包括成套散件）及其底盘的，需按规定申领出口许可证。其中，消耗臭氧层物质货样广告品需凭出口许可证出口；以一般贸易、加工贸易、边境贸易和捐赠贸易方式出口汽车、摩托车产品的，需按规定的条件申领出口许可证；以工程承包方式出口汽车、摩托车产品的，凭对外承包工程项目备案回执或特定项目立项函、中标文件等材料申领出口许可证；以上述贸易方式出口非原产于中国的汽车、摩托车产品的，凭进口海关单据和货物出口合同申领出口许可证。 （六）以加工贸易方式出口第五款所列货物的，除另有规定以外，凭有关批准文件、海关加工贸易进口报关单和货物出口合同申领出口许可证。 （七）出口铈及铈合金（颗粒＜500微米）、钨及钨合金（颗粒＜500微米）、锆、铍的可免于申领出口许可证，但需按规定申领《中华人民共和国两用物项和技术出口许可证》。 （八）我国政府对外援助项下提供的货物免于申领出口许可证。 （九）继续暂停对一般贸易项下润滑油（海关商品编号27101991）、润滑脂（海关商品编号27101992）、润滑油基础油（海关商品编号27101993）出口的国营贸易管理。以一般贸易方式出口上述货物的，凭有效的货物出口合同申领出口许可证。以其他贸易方式出口上述货物的，按照商务部、发展改革委、海关总署公告2008年第30号的规定执行。 二、“非一批一证”制和“一批一证”制 （一）对下列货物实行“非一批一证”制管理：即小麦、玉米、大米、小麦粉、玉米粉、大米粉、活牛、活猪、活鸡、牛肉、猪肉、鸡肉、原油、成品油、煤炭、摩托车（含全地形车）及其发动机和车架、汽车（包括成套散件）及其底盘（限新车）、加工贸易项下出口货物、补偿贸易项下出口货物等。出口上述货物的，可在出口许可证有效期内多次通关使用出口许可证，但通关使用次数不得超过12次。 （二）对消耗臭氧层物质、汽车（旧）出口实行“一批一证”制管理，出口许可证在有效期内一次报关使用。 三、货物通关口岸 继续暂停对镁砂、稀土、锑及锑制品等出口货物的指定口岸管理。 四、出口许可机构 商务部和受商务部委托的省级地方商务主管部门及沈阳市、长春市、哈尔滨市、南京市、武汉市、广州市、成都市、西安市商务主管部门按照分工受理申请人的申请并实施出口许可，向符合条件的申请人签发出口许可证。 本公告所称省级地方商务主管部门，是指各省、自治区、直辖市及计划单列市、新疆生产建设兵团商务主管部门。 五、实施时间 本公告自2023年1月1日起执行。商务部、海关总署公告2021年第50号同时废止。 商务部　　　　海关总署 2022年12月30日 出口许可证管理货物目录（2023年）.pdf
input_url: 20230101054308/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202212/20221203376706.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20221230174206/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202212/20221203376706.shtml
date: 2023-01-01 00:00:00
translated_title: Ministry of Commerce General Administration of Customs Announcement on the Publication of the Catalogue of Goods for Export License Management (2023)
translated_content: In accordance with the Foreign Trade Law of the People's Republic of China, Regulations of the People's Republic of China on Administration of Import and Export of Goods, Regulations on Administration of Ozone-Depleting Substances, Measures for Administration of Licenses for the Export of Goods, and other laws, administrative rules and regulations, we hereby promulgate the Catalogue of Goods to be Administered under Export Licenses (2023) (hereinafter referred to as the Catalogue) and related matters. I. Application for License (1) The export goods to be managed by license in 2023 are 43 types, as shown in the catalog. Foreign trade operators exporting the goods listed in the catalog should apply to the Ministry of Commerce or the local commerce department entrusted by the Ministry of Commerce to obtain the "People's Republic of China Export License" (hereinafter referred to as the export license), with the export license to the Customs for customs clearance and inspection procedures. (b) For exporting live cattle (to Hong Kong and Macao), live pigs (to Hong Kong and Macao), live chickens (to Hong Kong), wheat, corn, rice, wheat flour, corn flour, rice flour, artificially cultivated ephedra for medicinal use, coal, crude oil, refined oil (excluding lubricating oils, greases and lubricating oils base oils), sawn timber, and cotton, the application for an Export License is made on the basis of documents proving the quotas; and for exporting licorice and licorice products, rushes and rushes products, the export license is made on the basis of documents proving the winning bidding of quotas. Application for export licenses on the basis of quota bidding documents. (C) For exporting the goods listed in paragraph 2 in the form of processing trade, application for export license shall be made on the basis of the quota documents and the contract for exporting the goods. Among them, the export of licorice and licorice products, rushes and rushes products, with quota bidding documents, customs processing trade import declaration for export license. (D) to border trade in small quantities of goods listed in paragraph 2 of the export, by the provincial local commerce department in charge of the border trade quota issued by the Ministry of Commerce and the requirements of the export license issued. For the export of licorice and licorice products, rushes and rushes products, ozone-depleting substances, motorcycles (including all-terrain vehicles) and their engines and frames, automobiles (including complete sets of loose parts) and their chassis by means of border small-scale trade, export licenses shall be applied for in accordance with the requirements. The export of goods other than those mentioned above in this paragraph in the form of border small-scale trade is exempted from applying for an export license. (E) the export of live cattle (to markets other than Hong Kong and Macao), live pigs (to markets other than Hong Kong and Macao), live chickens (to markets other than Hong Kong), beef, pork, chicken, natural sand (including standard sand), bauxite, phosphorite, magnesia, talcum (powder), fluorite (fluorite), rare earths, tin and tin products, tungsten and tungsten products, molybdenum and molybdenum products, antimony and antimony products, coke, oil products (lubricating oils, greases, lubricants), paraffin, some of which are not covered in this paragraph. Coke, refined oil (lubricating oil, lubricating grease, lubricating oil), paraffin, some metals and products, disodium sulfate, silicon carbide, ozone-depleting substances, citric acid, silver, platinum (exported in the form of processing trade), indium and indium products, motorcycles (including all-terrain vehicles), their engines and frames, automobiles (including complete sets of loose parts) and their chassis, are required to apply for export licenses in accordance with the regulations. Among them, ODS cargo samples and advertisements need to be exported with an export license; exporting automobile and motorcycle products by means of general trade, processing trade, border trade and donation trade needs to apply for an export license according to the stipulated conditions; exporting automobile and motorcycle products by means of engineering contracting needs to apply for an export license with the receipt of the filing of the foreign-contracted engineering project or the letter of establishment of a specific project, the successful bidding document and other materials; If the automobile or motorcycle products not originating in China are exported in the above trade mode, an export license shall be applied for on the basis of import customs documents and the contract for export of goods. (F) the export of goods listed in paragraph 5 in the form of processing trade, unless otherwise specified, with the relevant approval documents, customs declaration of import of processing trade and the export contract for export of goods to apply for an export license. (G) the export of cerium and cerium alloy (particles <500 microns), tungsten and tungsten alloy (particles <500 microns), zirconium, beryllium can be exempted from the export license, but need to apply for the "People's Republic of China Dual-Use Items and Technology Export License" in accordance with the provisions. (viii) The goods provided under the foreign aid of the Government of China are exempted from applying for export licenses. (IX) continue to suspend the state trade management on the export of lubricating oil (Customs Commodity No. 27101991), lubricating grease (Customs Commodity No. 27101992) and lubricating oil base oil (Customs Commodity No. 27101993) under general trade. If the above goods are exported by way of general trade, an export license shall be applied for on the basis of a valid contract for the export of goods. Export of the above goods in other trade modes, in accordance with the provisions of the Ministry of Commerce, Development and Reform Commission, General Administration of Customs Notice No. 30 of 2008. Second, "not a batch of one license" system and "a batch of one license" system (a) for the following goods to implement the "not a batch of one license" system of management: namely, wheat, corn, rice, wheat flour, corn flour, rice flour, live cattle, live pigs Rice flour, live cattle, live pigs, live chickens, beef, pork, chicken, crude oil, refined oil, coal, motorcycles (including all-terrain vehicles) and their engines and frames, automobiles (including complete sets of loose parts) and their chassis (limited to new cars), goods exported under the processing trade, goods exported under the compensatory trade. The export of the above goods can be used for multiple customs clearance within the validity period of the export license, but the number of customs clearance shall not exceed 12 times. (ii) of ozone-depleting substances, automobiles (old) exports to implement the "one batch, one license" system of management, the export license within the validity period of a customs clearance for use. Ports of entry and exit of goods Continue to suspend the management of designated ports for the export of magnesium sand, rare earths, antimony and antimony products. Fourth, the export license agency Ministry of Commerce and the Ministry of Commerce entrusted by the local commerce department at the provincial level and Shenyang, Changchun, Harbin, Nanjing, Wuhan, Guangzhou, Chengdu, Xi'an City, in accordance with the division of labor to accept the applicant's application and the implementation of export licensing to the applicant to meet the conditions for the issuance of export licenses. This announcement refers to the provincial local business authorities, refers to the provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities and municipalities directly under the Central Government, Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps business authorities. V. Implementation Time This announcement shall be implemented from January 1, 2023 onwards. Ministry of Commerce, General Administration of Customs Announcement No. 50 of 2021 is simultaneously repealed. Ministry of Commerce General Administration of Customs December 30, 2022 Export License Management Goods Catalog (2023).pdf
english_summary: The Ministry of Commerce and the General Administration of Customs have announced a new Catalogue of Goods for Export License Management (2023). This catalogue lists 43 types of goods that will be subject to export license management in 2023. Foreign trade operators exporting these goods will need to obtain an "Export License" from the Ministry of Commerce or a local commerce department entrusted by the Ministry of Commerce. The export license can then be used for customs clearance and inspection procedures. The announcement also details the different types of export licenses required, such as quota-based licenses, contract-based licenses, and border trade licenses. Additionally, the announcement explains the system of "not a batch of one license" and "one batch of one license" for certain goods. Finally, it specifies the export license agencies and implementation time.
