html: nan
title: 商务部 海关总署公告2023年第5号2023年新西兰羊毛和毛条、澳大利亚羊毛进口国别关税配额管理实施细则
resulting_text: 为了实施《中华人民共和国政府与新西兰政府自由贸易协定》和《中华人民共和国政府与澳大利亚政府自由贸易协定》（以下简称《自贸协定》），根据《中华人民共和国货物进出口管理条例》《 农产品进口关税配额 管理暂行办法》和《2023年羊毛、毛条进口关税配额管理实施细则》，商务部、海关总署制定了2023年新西兰羊毛和毛条、澳大利亚羊毛进口国别关税配额（以下简称国别关税配额）管理实施细则，现公告如下： 一、国别关税配额总量 2023年国别关税配额总量分别为：新西兰羊毛36936吨、新西兰毛条665吨、澳大利亚羊毛42213吨。 二、分配原则 国别关税配额实行凭合同先来先领的分配方式。当发放数量累计达到2023年国别关税配额总量，商务部停止接受申请。 三、申请条件 2023年国别关税配额申请者基本条件为：2023年1月1日前在市场监督管理部门登记注册；未列入“信用中国”网站失信惩戒名单；没有违反《农产品进口关税配额管理暂行办法》和《2022年羊毛、毛条进口国别关税配额管理实施细则》的行为。 在具备上述条件的前提下，国别关税配额申请者还必须符合下列条件之一： （一）持有 2022年国别关税配额且有进口实绩（不包括代理进口）的企业（以下称有实绩申请者）； （二）羊毛、毛条年加工能力3000吨及以上的毛纺生产企业（以下称无实绩申请者）。 四、申请材料 （一）国别关税配额申请表，可从商务部网站（http: //www.mofcom.gov.cn ）下载; （二）羊毛、毛条进口合同； （三）主管部门对建设项目的批复文件或备案文件，以及竣工验收报告（无实绩申请者提供）。 五、国别关税配额申领 有实绩申请者在年度内可多次申领国别关税配额，但2023年9月30日前累计申领数量不超过2022年同一贸易方式下的进口数量。进口数量按商务部委托机构收到并在农产品进口关税配额管理系统（以下简称管理系统）核销的《中华人民共和国农产品进口关税配额证》（以下简称配额证）累计数量（下同）计算。 六、国别关税配额再分配 2023年9月30日后，商务部对剩余可供分配数量进行再分配。已完成第五条规定数量的有实绩者和符合条件的无实绩者可以申请国别关税配额再分配。 （一）申请企业于2023年9月20日前通过商务部业务系统统一平台企业端（商务部业务系统统一平台企业端—许可证统一管理平台—农产品进口关税配额证明系统）线上填写并提交书面申请材料。逾期不再接收。 （二）商务部委托机构于2023年9月30日前将企业申请材料转报商务部（行政事务服务大厅），并将信息上传至管理系统。商务部委托机构寄送申请材料需注明：北京市东长安街2号商务部行政事务服务大厅 ，项目编码18015-001(羊毛、毛条进口关税配额申请材料)，邮编100731，联系电话010-65197862。 （三）商务部将在官方网站上对符合申请条件拟再分配的企业信息进行公示（公示期和举报意见提交方式将在公示时一并规定）。公示期内，任何主体均可就所公示信息的真实性进行举报。公众提交举报意见的期限届满后，商务部将委托被举报申请企业登记注册所在地的委托机构进行核查。核查期间，被举报申请企业有权通过书面等方式，就所举报的相关问题向委托机构提出异议。委托机构审阅被举报申请企业提出的异议并完成调查核实后，向商务部就举报意见的真实性反馈核查情况。 （四）经商务部核准的再分配企业可继续申领进口国别关税配额。 七、国别关税配额证核发 商务部在管理系统收到填报完整的申请后，于5个工作日内将审批结果通知商务部委托机构。商务部委托机构于5个工作日内向最终用户签发电子配额证，并将电子数据传输至海关。在配额证备注栏中需明确标注“新西兰羊毛、毛条国别配额”或“澳大利亚羊毛国别配额”，配额证面显示数量为洗净/公定数量。过期未使用的，管理系统将收回申请数量，并相应扣减该企业当年可申领数量。 八、国别关税配额证海关验核 国别关税配额持有者进口时，应据实向海关申报进口羊毛、毛条的洗净/公定数量，凭电子配额证向海关办理进口手续。经海关审核确认并符合《自贸协定》有关规定的，可适用《自贸协定》协定税率；若不符合《自贸协定》有关规定，则适用最惠国税率或普通税率。 九、国别关税配额证期限 配额证自签发之日起3个月内有效，最迟不得超过2023年12月31日。 对2023年12月31日前从始发港出运，需在次年到货的，国别关税配额持有者需于12月31日前向商务部委托机构提交装船单证及有效配额证申请延期，延期的配额证有效期最迟不超过2024年2月28日。 十、国别关税配额退回与核销 （一）在配额证有效期内，国别关税配额持有者未使用或未用完已申领的配额，需通过商务部业务系统统一平台线上向签发该证的商务部委托机构提交退回申请。商务部委托机构及时将已使用数量在管理系统中核销并退回未使用数量。商务部将配额证所列剩余配额予以收回，计入国别关税配额余量。当年无法完成的国别关税配额量最迟退回日期不得超过2023年9月15日。未按期退回者，视同未完成进口，等比例扣减2024年可申领数量。 （二）国别关税配额持有者在进口货物办结海关手续后20个工作日内，需通过商务部业务系统统一平台线上向签发配额证的商务部委托机构提交核销申请。商务部委托机构需及时在管理系统进行核销。办理延期的配额证最迟核销期不得超过2024年3月31日。未按期核销者，视同未完成进口，等比例扣减2024年可申领数量。 十一、罚则 申请者对其提交申请材料和信息的真实性承担主体责任，不得有任何隐瞒或提供虚假信息，经核查确定申报材料和信息不属实的，取消其申请资格。对伪造合同或有关材料骗取配额证的，除依法收缴其配额证，商务部及其委托机构两年内不再受理其国别关税配额的申请。对伪造、变造或者买卖配额证的，将依法追究其刑事责任。 附件： 1. 羊毛、毛条进口国别关税配额申请表.docx 2. 羊毛、毛条进口税目表.docx
input_url: 20230113054024/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202301/20230103379007.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230113054110/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202301/20230103379007.shtml
date: 2023-01-13 00:00:00
translated_title: Ministry of Commerce General Administration of Customs Announcement No. 5 of 2023 Implementation Rules for the Administration of Country-Specific Tariff Quotas for the Import of New Zealand Wool and Woolen Bars and Australian Wool in 2023
translated_content: In order to implement the Free Trade Agreement between the Government of the People's Republic of China and the Government of New Zealand and the Free Trade Agreement between the Government of the People's Republic of China and the Government of Australia (hereinafter referred to as FTA), according to the Regulations of the People's Republic of China on the Administration of the Import and Export of Goods, the Provisional Measures for Administration of Import Tariff Quotas for Agricultural Products, and the Implementing Rules for the Management of Import Tariff Quotas for Wool and Woolen Bars for the Year 2023. The Ministry of Commerce and the General Administration of Customs have formulated the Implementation Rules for the Administration of Country-Specific Tariff Quotas for the Import of New Zealand Wool and Woolen Bars and Australian Wool in 2023 (hereinafter referred to as the country-specific tariff quotas), which are hereby announced as follows: I. Total Country-Specific Tariff Quotas The total country-specific tariff quotas for the year of 2023 are 36,936 tons for New Zealand Wool, 665 tons for New Zealand Woolen Bars, and 42,213 tons for Australian Wool, respectively. The country-specific tariff quotas will be allocated on a first-come-first-served basis on the basis of contracts. The Ministry of Commerce will stop accepting applications when the total number of issued quotas reaches the total number of country-specific tariff quotas in 2023. Application conditions The basic conditions for applicants for country-specific tariff quotas in 2023 are: registered in the market supervision and management department before January 1, 2023; not listed in the "Credit China" website's list of disciplinary actions for breach of trust; not violating the "Interim Measures for the Administration of Imported Tariff Quotas for Agricultural Products" and the "Implementation Rules for the Administration of Country-specific Tariff Quotas on the Imports of Wool and Woolen Strip in 2022". Implementation Rules for Tariff Quota Management for Wool and Woolen Bars in 2022". On the premise of the above conditions, applicants for country-specific tariff quotas must also meet one of the following conditions: (1) enterprises holding country-specific tariff quotas in 2022 and with import performance (excluding agency imports) (hereinafter referred to as applicants with performance); (2) wool, wool processing capacity of 3,000 tons of wool and woolen textile enterprises (hereinafter referred to as applicants without performance). Application materials (a) Application form for country-specific tariff quotas, which can be downloaded from the website of the Ministry of Commerce (http: //www.mofcom.gov.cn); (b) import contracts for wool and woolen products; (c) approval or filing documents of the competent authorities of the construction project, as well as completion and acceptance reports (provided by the applicants with no actual achievements). V. Application for country-specific tariff quotas Applicants with solid performance can apply for country-specific tariff quotas several times during the year, but the cumulative number of applications before September 30, 2023 does not exceed the number of imports in 2022 under the same mode of trade. The imported quantity is calculated according to the cumulative quantity (the same hereinafter) of the "Certificate of Tariff Quotas for the Import of Agricultural Products of the People's Republic of China" (hereinafter referred to as the Quota Certificate) received by the commissioned organization of the Ministry of Commerce and canceled in the Agricultural Products Import Tariff Quota Management System (hereinafter referred to as the Management System). VI. Redistribution of country-specific tariff quotas After September 30, 2023, MOFCOM will redistribute the remaining quantities available for distribution. Those who have completed the quantities stipulated in Article 5 with actual achievements and those who meet the conditions without actual achievements can apply for redistribution of country-specific tariff quotas. (I) The applicant enterprises shall fill in and submit written application materials online before September 20, 2023 through the enterprise side of the unified platform of the business system of the Ministry of Commerce (enterprise side of the unified platform of the business system of the Ministry of Commerce - unified management platform for licenses - system for proving tariff quotas for agricultural products imports). Late no longer receive. (ii) The agency commissioned by the Ministry of Commerce will forward the application materials of the enterprises to the Ministry of Commerce (Administrative Affairs Service Hall) before September 30, 2023, and upload the information to the management system. The agency entrusted by the Ministry of Commerce to send the application materials should indicate: Administrative Affairs Service Hall of the Ministry of Commerce, No. 2, East Chang'an Street, Beijing , Project Code 18015-001 (Application Materials for Import Tariff Quotas for Wool and Woolen Strips), Zip Code 100731, Contact Tel 010-65197862. (C) The Ministry of Commerce will make public announcements on the official website of information about the enterprises that are eligible to apply for the conditions to be re-distributed ( The publicity period and the way of submitting reports and opinions will be stipulated together with the publicity). During the publicity period, any subject may report on the authenticity of the information published. After the expiration of the deadline for the public to submit reports, the Ministry of Commerce will be reported to the applicant enterprise registered commissioned by the commissioned organization for verification. During the verification period, the reported applicant enterprise has the right to report in writing, etc., on the relevant issues to the commissioning body to raise objections. Commissioned by the agency to review the reported application for the objections raised by the enterprise and complete the investigation and verification, to the Ministry of Commerce on the authenticity of the reported feedback verification. (D) approved by the Ministry of Commerce redistribution of enterprises can continue to apply for imported country-specific tariff quotas. VII, country-specific tariff quota certificate issued by the Ministry of Commerce in the management system to receive a complete application, within five working days of the approval results will be notified to the Ministry of Commerce commissioned organizations. Commissioned by the Ministry of Commerce within 5 working days to the end user to issue electronic quota certificate, and electronic data transmission to the Customs. In the remarks column of the quota certificate, it should be clearly marked "New Zealand wool, wool country quota" or "Australian wool country quota", and the quantity shown on the face of the quota certificate is the washed/grossed quantity. If it is not used after the expiration date, the management system will take back the quantity applied for, and accordingly deduct the number of enterprises can apply for that year. Eight, country-specific tariff quota customs verification country-specific tariff quota holders imported, should be declared to the Customs imported wool, woolen clean / fixed number of electronic quota card to the Customs for import procedures. If it is confirmed by the Customs and conforms to the relevant provisions of FTA, the agreed tariff rate of FTA can be applied; if it does not conform to the relevant provisions of FTA, the most-favored-nation (MFN) tariff rate or the ordinary tariff rate will be applied. IX. Duration of country-specific tariff quota certificates The quota certificates are valid for three months from the date of issuance, and shall not exceed December 31, 2023 at the latest. For shipments from the port of departure before December 31, 2023, need to arrive in the following year, country-specific tariff quota holders need to be submitted to the Ministry of Commerce commissioned by the shipment of documents and valid quota certificate to apply for an extension of the extension of the validity of the quota certificate shall not exceed February 28, 2024 at the latest. X. Return and Cancellation of Country Specific Tariff Quotas (1) Within the validity period of the quota certificate, the country specific tariff quota holders who have not used or have not used up the applied quota, need to submit an application for the return of the quota certificate to the commissioned organization of the Ministry of Commerce which issued the certificate through the unified platform of the business system of the Ministry of Commerce on line. The commissioned organization of the Ministry of Commerce will promptly write off the used quantity in the management system and return the unused quantity. The Ministry of Commerce will take back the remaining quota listed in the quota certificate, which will be counted as the balance of the country-specific tariff quota. The latest return date of the country-specific tariff quotas that cannot be completed in the current year shall not exceed September 15, 2023 at the latest. If the quota is not returned by the due date, it will be regarded as unfulfilled imports, and the quantity that can be claimed in 2024 will be deducted in equal proportion. (ii) The holder of country-specific tariff quotas shall submit an application for cancellation to the agency entrusted by the Ministry of Commerce that issued the quota certificate through the unified platform of the business system of the Ministry of Commerce within 20 working days after the completion of customs formalities for the imported goods. The commissioned organization of the Ministry of Commerce needs to carry out write-off in the management system in a timely manner. The latest write-off period for the quota certificate for extension shall not exceed March 31, 2024 at the latest. Failure to meet the deadline for write-off, as if the import has not been completed, equal percentage deduction of the number of 2024 can be claimed. XI. Penalties The applicant shall bear the main responsibility for the authenticity of the application materials and information submitted by the applicant, and shall not have any concealment or provide false information. If it is verified that the declaration materials and information are not true, the applicant shall be disqualified from applying for the license. For those applicants who have obtained quota certificates by forging contracts or relevant materials, in addition to seizing their quota certificates in accordance with the law, the Ministry of Commerce and its commissioned organizations will not accept their applications for country-specific tariff quotas within two years. Any person who forges, falsifies or trades in quota certificates will be investigated for criminal responsibility according to law. Attachment: 1. Application Form for Country Specific Tariff Quota for Import of Wool and Woolen Bars.docx 2. Tariff List for Import of Wool and Woolen Bars.docx
english_summary: The Ministry of Commerce and the General Administration of Customs have announced the implementation rules for the administration of country-specific tariff quotas for the import of New Zealand wool and woolen bars and Australian wool in 2023. These rules aim to implement the Free Trade Agreements between China and New Zealand and Australia, as well as the regulations on the administration of imported and export goods and the management of import tariff quotas for agricultural products. The total country-specific tariff quotas for 2023 include 36,936 tons for New Zealand wool, 665 tons for New Zealand woolen bars, and 42,213 tons for Australian wool. These quotas will be allocated on a first-come-first-served basis, and the Ministry of Commerce will stop accepting applications when the total number of issued quotas reaches the total number of country-specific tariff quotas. To apply for country-specific tariff quotas, applicants must meet certain conditions, such as being registered with the market supervision and management department before January 1, 2023 and not having any disciplinary actions for breach of trust on the "Credit China" website. Applications can be made several times during the year, and the imported quantity will be calculated according to the cumulative quantity of the "Certificate of Tariff Quotas for the Import of Agricultural Products of the People's Republic of China" received by the commissioned organization of the Ministry of Commerce and canceled in the Agricultural Products Import Tariff Quota Management System. The Ministry of Commerce will make public announcements on eligible enterprises for redistribution of country-specific tariff quotas. The quota certificates are valid for three months from the date of issuance and can be extended for an additional two years if the holders have not used or have not used up the applied quota. The country-specific tariff quotas that cannot be completed in the current year must be returned to the Ministry of Commerce, and any unfulfilled imports will result in a deduction of the number of quotas that can be claimed in 2024. Penalties will be imposed on applicants who provide false information or forge contracts or relevant materials. The rules also include a provision for the return and cancellation of country-specific tariff quotas.
