html: nan
title: 商务部公告2023年第18号 关于对原产于印度的进口间苯氧基苯甲醛所适用的反倾销措施发起期终复审调查的公告
resulting_text: 2018年5月31日，商务部发布2018年第42号公告，决定自2018年6月8日起对原产于印度的进口间苯氧基苯甲醛征收反倾销税，税率为36.4%-56.9%，实施期限为5年。 2023年3月7日，商务部收到潍坊茂源生物科技有限公司代表中国间苯氧基苯甲醛产业提交的反倾销措施期终复审申请书。申请人主张，如果终止反倾销措施，原产于印度的进口间苯氧基苯甲醛对中国的倾销可能继续或再度发生，对中国产业造成的损害可能继续或再度发生，请求商务部对原产于印度的进口间苯氧基苯甲醛进行期终复审调查，并维持对原产于印度的进口间苯氧基苯甲醛实施的反倾销措施。 根据《中华人民共和国反倾销条例》有关规定，商务部对申请人资格、被调查产品和中国同类产品有关情况、反倾销措施实施期间被调查产品进口情况、倾销继续或再度发生的可能性、损害继续或再度发生的可能性及相关证据等进行了审查。现有证据表明，申请人及支持申请企业符合《中华人民共和国反倾销条例》第十一条、第十三条和第十七条关于产业及产业代表性的规定，有资格代表中国间苯氧基苯甲醛产业提出申请。调查机关认为，申请人的主张以及所提交的表面证据符合期终复审立案的要求。 根据《中华人民共和国反倾销条例》第四十八条规定，商务部决定自2023年6月8日起，对原产于印度的进口间苯氧基苯甲醛所适用的反倾销措施进行期终复审调查。现将有关事项公告如下： 一、继续实施反倾销措施 根据商务部建议，国务院关税税则委员会决定，在反倾销措施期终复审调查期间，对原产于印度的进口间苯氧基苯甲醛继续按照2018年第42号公告公布的征税产品范围和税率征收反倾销税。 对各公司征收的反倾销税税率如下： 1.BHARAT RASAYAN LIMITED          56.4% 2.赫曼尼工业有限公司              36.4% （HEMANI INDUSTRIES LIMITED） 3.古吉拉特杀虫剂有限公司          52.0% （GUJARAT INSECTICIDES LIMITED） 4.其他印度公司                    56.9% 二、复审调查期 本次复审的倾销调查期为2022年1月1日至2022年12月31日，产业损害调查期为2018年1月1日至2022年12月31日。 三、复审调查产品范围 复审产品范围是原反倾销措施所适用的产品，与商务部2018年第42号公告公布的反倾销措施所适用的产品范围一致，具体如下: 中文名称：间苯氧基苯甲醛。 英文名称：Meta Phenoxy Benzaldehyde、M-Phenoxy Benzaldehyde、3-Phenoxy Benzaldehyde等，简称MPB或MPBD。 分子结构：C 13 H 10 O 2 化学结构式： 产品描述：间苯氧基苯甲醛是一种重要的农药化工中间体，外观通常为淡黄色或无色透明液体，不溶于水，溶于醇、苯、甲苯等有机溶剂。 主要用途：主要用于合成功夫菊酯（三氟氯氰菊酯）、氯氰菊酯、高效氯氰菊酯、氰戊菊酯、甲氰菊酯等拟除虫菊酯类原料药，进而用于制造拟除虫菊酯类杀虫剂等农药制剂。 该产品归在《中华人民共和国进出口税则》：29124990。该税则号项下的其他产品不在本次被调查产品范围之内。 四、复审内容 本次复审调查的内容为：如果终止对原产于印度的进口间苯氧基苯甲醛实施的反倾销措施，是否可能导致倾销和损害继续或再度发生。 五、登记参加调查 利害关系方可于本公告发布之日起20日内，向商务部贸易救济调查局登记参加本次反倾销期终复审调查。参加调查的利害关系方应根据《登记参加调查的参考格式》提供基本身份信息、向中国出口或进口本案被调查产品的数量及金额、生产和销售同类产品的数量及金额以及关联情况等说明材料。《登记参加调查的参考格式》可在商务部网站贸易救济调查局子网站下载。 利害关系方登记参加本次反倾销调查，应通过“贸易救济调查信息化平台”（https://etrb.mofcom.gov.cn）提交电子版本，并根据商务部的要求，同时提交书面版本。电子版本和书面版本内容应相同，格式应保持一致。 本公告所称的利害关系方是指《中华人民共和国反倾销条例》第十九条规定的个人和组织。 六、查阅公开信息 利害关系方可在商务部网站贸易救济调查局子网站下载或到商务部贸易救济公开信息查阅室（电话：0086-10-65197856）查找、阅览、抄录并复印本案申请人提交的申请书的非保密文本。调查过程中，利害关系方可通过相关网站查询案件公开信息，或到商务部贸易救济公开信息查阅室查找、阅览、抄录并复印案件公开信息。 七、对立案的评论 利害关系方对本次调查的产品范围及申请人资格、被调查国家及其他相关问题如需发表评论，可于本公告发布之日起20天内将书面意见提交至商务部贸易救济调查局。 八、调查方式 根据《中华人民共和国反倾销条例》第二十条规定，商务部可以采用问卷、抽样、听证会、现场核查等方式向有关利害关系方了解情况，进行调查。 为获得本案调查所需要的信息，商务部通常在本公告规定的登记参加调查截止之日起10个工作日内向利害关系方发放调查问卷。利害关系方可以从商务部网站贸易救济调查局子网站下载调查问卷。 利害关系方应在规定时间内提交完整、准确的答卷，应当包括调查问卷所要求的全部信息。 九、信息的提交和处理 利害关系方在调查过程中提交评论意见、答卷等，应通过“贸易救济调查信息化平台”（https://etrb.mofcom.gov.cn）提交电子版本，并根据商务部的要求，同时提交书面版本。电子版本和书面版本内容应相同，格式应保持一致。 利害关系方向商务部提交的信息如需保密的，可向商务部提出对相关信息进行保密处理的请求并说明理由。如商务部同意其请求，申请保密的利害关系方应同时提供该保密信息的非保密概要。非保密概要应当包含充分的有意义的信息，以使其他利害关系方对保密信息能有合理理解。如不能提供非保密概要，应说明理由。如利害关系方提交的信息未说明需要保密的，商务部将视该信息为公开信息。 十、不合作的后果 根据《中华人民共和国反倾销条例》第二十一条的规定，商务部进行调查时，利害关系方应当如实反映情况，提供有关资料。利害关系方不如实反映情况、提供有关资料的，或者没有在合理时间内提供必要信息的，或者以其他方式严重妨碍调查的，商务部可以根据已经获得的事实和可获得的最佳信息作出裁定。 十一、调查期限 本次调查自2023年6月8日开始，应于2024年6月8日前（不含本日）结束。 十二、商务部联系方式 地址：中国北京市东长安街2号 邮编：100731 商务部贸易救济调查局 进口调查三处 电话：0086-10-65198740、65198175 传真：0086-10-65198172 商务部网站贸易救济调查局子网站 trb.mofcom.gov.cn 中华人民共和国商务部 2023年6月7日 附件1：间苯氧基苯甲醛反倾销措施期终复审调查申请书（公开文本）- 正文.pdf 附件2：间苯氧基苯甲醛反倾销措施期终复审调查申请书（公开文本）- 附件.pdf 附件3：间苯氧基苯甲醛反倾销措施期终复审登记参加调查的参考格式.wps
input_url: 20230609014544/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202306/20230603414832.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230608111432/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202306/20230603414832.shtml
date: 2023-06-09 00:00:00
translated_title: MOFCOM Announcement No. 18 of 2023 Announcement on the Initiation of End-of-Term Review Investigation on Anti-Dumping Measures Applied to Imports of m-Phenoxybenzaldehyde Originating in India
translated_content: On May 31, 2018, the Ministry of Commerce ("MOFCOM") issued Announcement No. 42 of 2018, deciding to impose anti-dumping duties on imports of m-phenoxybenzaldehyde originating from India at the rate of 36.4%-56.9% from June 8, 2018, with an implementation period of 5 years. On March 7, 2023, MOFCOM received an application for end-of-period review of the anti-dumping measures submitted by Weifang Maoyuan Biotechnology Co. on behalf of China's m-phenoxybenzaldehyde industry. The applicant claimed that if the anti-dumping measures were terminated, the dumping of imported m-phenoxybenzaldehyde originating in India against China might continue or reoccur, and the damage caused to the Chinese industry might continue or reoccur, and requested MOFCOM to conduct a final review investigation of imported m-phenoxybenzaldehyde originating in India and to maintain the anti-dumping measures imposed on the imported m-phenoxybenzaldehyde originating in India. In accordance with the relevant provisions of the Regulations of the People's Republic of China on Anti-Dumping, the Ministry of Commerce reviewed the qualifications of the applicant, the products under investigation and the situation of similar products in China, the imports of the products under investigation during the period of the implementation of the anti-dumping measures, the possibility of the continuation or recurrence of dumping, the possibility of the continuation or recurrence of injury, and the relevant evidence. The available evidence shows that the applicant and the enterprises supporting the application meet the requirements of Articles 11, 13 and 17 of the Anti-Dumping Regulations of the People's Republic of China regarding the industry and industry representation, and are qualified to file the application on behalf of the Chinese m-phenoxybenzaldehyde industry. The Investigating Authority is of the view that the applicant's claims and the prima facie evidence submitted meet the requirements for filing an end-of-period review case. In accordance with Article 48 of the Anti-Dumping Regulations of the People's Republic of China, the Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) has decided to conduct a final review investigation, commencing on June 8, 2023, into the anti-dumping measures applied to imports of m-phenoxybenzaldehyde originating in India. The relevant matters are hereby announced as follows: I. Continuation of anti-dumping measures Based on the recommendation of the Ministry of Commerce, the Customs Tariff Commission of the State Council has decided to continue to impose anti-dumping duties on imports of m-phenoxybenzaldehyde originating from India in accordance with the scope of dutiable products and the duty rate published in Announcement No. 42 of 2018 during the period of end-of-period review investigation of the anti-dumping measures. The anti-dumping duty rates imposed on the companies are as follows: 1. BHARAT RASAYAN LIMITED 56.4% 2. HEMANI INDUSTRIES LIMITED 36.4% (HEMANI INDUSTRIES LIMITED) 3. GUJARAT INSECTICIDES LIMITED 52.0% (GUJARAT INSECTICIDES LIMITED) 4. Other Indian companies 56.9% II. Review investigation period The dumping investigation period of this review is from January 1, 2022 to December 31, 2022, and the industrial damage investigation period is from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2022. Third, the scope of products under review investigation The scope of products under review is the products to which the original anti-dumping measures apply, and is consistent with the scope of products to which the anti-dumping measures published in the Ministry of Commerce's Announcement No. 42 of 2018, as follows: Chinese name: Meta Phenoxy Benzaldehyde. English name: Meta Phenoxy Benzaldehyde, M-Phenoxy Benzaldehyde, 3-Phenoxy Benzaldehyde, etc., abbreviated as MPB or MPBD. Molecular structure: C 13 H 10 O 2 Chemical structural formula: Product description: m-Phenoxy Benzaldehyde is an important pesticide chemical intermediate. Appearance is usually light yellow or colorless transparent liquid, insoluble in water, soluble in alcohol, benzene, toluene and other organic solvents. Main uses: It is mainly used in the synthesis of pyrethroid raw materials such as kung fu permethrin (cyfluthrin), cypermethrin, high efficiency cypermethrin, cypermethrin, cypermethrin and so on, and then used in the manufacture of pyrethroid insecticides and other pesticide preparations. This product is categorized in the "Import and Export Tariff Code of the People's Republic of China": 29124990, and other products under this tariff code are not included in the scope of the investigated products. The content of this review investigation is whether the termination of the anti-dumping measures imposed on the imports of m-phenoxybenzaldehyde originating in India is likely to lead to the continuation or re-occurrence of dumping and injury. V. Registration to participate in the investigation Stakeholders can register to participate in the anti-dumping final review investigation with the Trade Remedy Bureau of the Ministry of Commerce within 20 days from the date of publication of this announcement. The interested party shall provide basic identity information, the quantity and amount of products exported or imported to China, the quantity and amount of similar products produced and sold, and related materials according to the "Reference Format for Registration for Participation in the Investigation". The Reference Form for Registration to Participate in the Investigation can be downloaded from the sub-site of the Trade Remedy Investigation Bureau on the website of the Ministry of Commerce. Stakeholders registering to participate in the anti-dumping investigation shall submit an electronic version through the "Trade Remedy Investigation Informationization Platform" (https://etrb.mofcom.gov.cn) and a written version at the same time according to the requirements of the Ministry of Commerce. The contents of the electronic version and the written version shall be the same and the format shall be consistent. The stakeholders referred to in this Notice are the individuals and organizations specified in Article 19 of the Anti-Dumping Regulations of the People's Republic of China. Interested parties may download from the sub-site of the Trade Remedy Investigation Bureau on the website of the Ministry of Commerce or go to the Trade Remedy Public Information Inspection Room of the Ministry of Commerce (Tel: 0086-10-65197856) to find, read, copy and photocopy the non-confidential text of the application submitted by the applicant in this case. During the process of investigation, interested parties may inquire the public information of the case through the relevant website, or go to the Trade Remedy Public Information Inspection Room of the Ministry of Commerce to find, read, transcribe and copy the public information of the case. Comments on the case Stakeholders who wish to comment on the scope of the products under investigation, the eligibility of the applicant, the country under investigation and other related issues may submit their written comments to the Trade Remedies Bureau of the Ministry of Commerce within 20 days from the date of publication of this announcement. According to Article 20 of the Anti-Dumping Regulations of the People's Republic of China, the Ministry of Commerce may use questionnaires, sampling, hearings, on-site verification and other means to understand the situation from the relevant stakeholders to carry out investigations. In order to obtain the information required for the investigation of this case, MOFCOM usually issues questionnaires to stakeholders within 10 working days from the deadline for registration to participate in the investigation as stipulated in this announcement. Stakeholders can download the questionnaire from the sub-site of the Trade Remedies Investigation Bureau on the MOFCOM website. Stakeholders shall submit complete and accurate answer sheets within the prescribed time, which shall include all the information required by the questionnaire. Submission and Processing of Information Stakeholders submitting comments, answer sheets, etc. in the course of the investigation shall submit the electronic version through the Trade Remedy Investigation Informationization Platform (https://etrb.mofcom.gov.cn), and submit the written version at the same time in accordance with the requirements of the Ministry of Commerce. The content of the electronic version and the written version shall be the same and the format shall be consistent. If the information submitted by the interested party to the MOFCOM needs to be kept confidential, the interested party may make a request to the MOFCOM for confidential treatment of the relevant information and state the reasons. If MOFCOM grants the request, the interested party applying for confidentiality shall at the same time provide a non-confidential summary of the confidential information. The non-confidential summary shall contain sufficient meaningful information to enable other stakeholders to have a reasonable understanding of the confidential information. If a non-confidential summary cannot be provided, a reason should be given. If a stakeholder submits information that does not state that it needs to be kept confidential, MOFCOM will treat the information as public. X. Consequences of Non-cooperation According to Article 21 of the Regulations of the People's Republic of China on Anti-Dumping, when MOFCOM conducts an investigation, the interested party shall truthfully reflect the situation and provide relevant information. If the interested party fails to reflect the situation truthfully and provide relevant information, or fails to provide the necessary information within a reasonable period of time, or seriously obstructs the investigation in other ways, MOFCOM may make a ruling based on the facts already obtained and the best available information. XI. Duration of the Investigation The investigation started on June 8, 2023, and shall be concluded before June 8, 2024 (excluding this date). XII. Contact Information of the Ministry of Commerce Address: No. 2, East Chang'an Street, Beijing, China Zip Code: 100731 Trade Remedy Investigation Bureau, Ministry of Commerce Import Investigation Division No. 3 Tel: 0086-10-65198740, 65198175 Fax: 0086-10-65198172 Website of the Ministry of Commerce Trade Remedy Investigation Bureau Sub-website trb.mofcom.gov.cn Ministry of Commerce of the People's Republic of China June 7, 2023 Annex 1: Application for Final Review Investigation of Anti-Dumping Measures on m-phenoxybenzaldehyde (Open Text) - Full Text.pdf Annex 2: Application for Final Review Investigation of Anti-Dumping Measures on m-phenoxybenzaldehyde (Open Text) - Attachment.pdf Annex 3: Reference Format of Registration for Participation in the Investigation of the Final Review of Anti-Dumping Measures on m-phenoxybenzaldehyde.wps
english_summary: The Chinese government is reviewing a request from a group of companies to maintain anti-dumping duties on imports of m-phenoxybenzaldehyde originating in India. The chemicals are used to produce pesticides, and the companies argue that lifting the duties could lead to a continuation of dumping and harm to the Chinese industry. The government has launched a final review investigation into the matter, and will continue to impose the anti-dumping duties until the investigation is complete. Interested parties have 20 days to register to participate in the investigation and submit written comments.
