html: nan
title: 商务部流通发展司关于公开征集城市一刻钟便民生活圈建设工作标识的启事
resulting_text: 城市一刻钟便民生活圈，是以社区居民为服务对象，服务半径为步行15分钟左右的范围内，以满足居民日常生活基本消费和品质消费等为目标，多业态集聚形成的社区商圈，是保障和改善民生、恢复和扩大消费的重要载体。近年来，商务部立足社区商业职能，联合有关部门深入开展城市一刻钟便民生活圈建设工作。为鼓励引导社会各界积极参与推进一刻钟便民生活圈建设，进一步提升一刻钟便民生活圈工作的社会关注度和影响力，现向社会公开征集城市一刻钟便民生活圈建设工作标识，具体事项如下： 一、征集时间 2023年9月15日至9月30日。 二、征集内容 城市一刻钟便民生活圈建设工作标识（LOGO）。 三、征集对象 面向社会公开征集，社会组织和个人均可参加。 四、征集单位 主办单位：商务部流通发展司 承办单位：商务部研究院 五、作品要求 作品包括标识（LOGO）和说明材料。 （一）标识。 作品应包含一刻钟、便民、生活圈等核心元素，突出便民服务特色，做到创意新颖、寓意贴切，富有亲和力和感染力。整体构图简约大气，便于识别、记忆和推广。核心要义应朴实通俗、精准深刻。图像应清晰、彩色，符合分辨率不低于 1080p （ 1920 x 1080 ） ，JPG格式。 （二）说明材料。 包括但不限于对作品的描述、释义，对创作理念、寓意的说明等，字数500字以内。创作者为个人的，需注明姓名、身份证号、通讯地址和联系方式等信息，创作者为单位或团体的，需注明单位或团体名称、通讯地址和联系方式等信息。 六、征集方式 作品统一以电子邮件方式提交，电子邮箱为mengxiang@mofcom.gov.cn 。 七、评审及奖励 主办单位指导承办单位组织开展作品的征集、评选、公示。作品评选过程坚持公平、公正的原则，以征集作品的实用性、创意性和内涵为评判标准，评选结果以得分排序，统筹确定最终获选作品，并在商务部网站公示。对获选作品创作者（人员、单位或团体），我司将致函感谢。 八、其他事项 （一）所有参选作品均通过电子邮件投递且均不予退还。应征作品必须由创作者原创，除参加本次征集活动外，未曾以任何形式公开发表，使用不得侵犯第三方的权利，如应征作品发生侵权纠纷，由作者承担相应的法律责任并被取消参选资格。 （二）获选作品一经选定且向创作者发送感谢函后，其作品著作权、使用权等相关权利全部归主办单位所有，创作者（人员、单位或团体）不得自行使用或转让第三方。本次活动适用中华人民共和国法律。与本次活动有关的任何争议，均提请北京仲裁委员会仲裁。主办单位对本次活动具有最终解释权。 联系方式： 010-85093777，010-85093780 商务部流通发展司 2023年9月15日
input_url: 20230915211450/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkgztz/202309/20230903440838.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230921161430/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkgztz/202309/20230903440838.shtml
date: 2023-09-16 00:00:00
translated_title: Circulation Development Department of the Ministry of Commerce on the public solicitation of urban quarter-hour convenient living circle construction work logo notice
translated_content: The quarter-hour urban convenience living area is a community business circle formed by multi-industry clustering with community residents as the service object and within a service radius of about 15 minutes' walking distance, aiming to meet the basic consumption and quality consumption of residents in their daily life, which is an important carrier for safeguarding and improving people's livelihood and restoring and expanding consumption. In recent years, the Ministry of Commerce, based on the function of community business, has joined hands with relevant departments to carry out the construction of quarter-hour convenient living areas in cities. In order to encourage and guide all sectors of society to actively participate in promoting the construction of the quarter-hour convenient living circle, and further enhance the social attention and influence of the quarter-hour convenient living circle work, we are now openly soliciting from the community the construction of the urban quarter-hour convenient living circle logo, the details of which are as follows: First, the collection of time from September 15, 2023 to September 30, the collection of content, the urban quarter-hour convenient living circle construction work logo, the collection of time is as follows: First, the collection of time. Second, the contents of the collection of urban quarter-hour convenient living circle construction work logo (LOGO). Third, the object of the collection is open to the public collection, social organizations and individuals can participate. Fourth, the collection unit host: the circulation of the Ministry of Commerce Development Division host: the Ministry of Commerce Research Institute V. Requirements Works include logo (LOGO) and description of the material. (a) Logo. The works should contain the core elements of quarter-hour, convenience, circle of life, etc., highlighting the characteristics of convenience services, and achieve novel creativity, apt meaning, affinity and infectious force. The overall composition should be simple and atmospheric, easy to recognize, remember and promote. The core meaning should be simple and simple, precise and profound. The image should be clear and colorful, with a resolution of not less than 1080p (1920 x 1080) in JPG format. (ii) Descriptive materials. Including, but not limited to, the description of the work, interpretation, the creative concept, moral description, etc., the word count is less than 500 words. If the creator is an individual, he/she should indicate his/her name, ID number, mailing address and contact information; if the creator is a unit or a group, he/she should indicate the name of the unit or group, mailing address and contact information. Sixth, the collection of works uniformly submitted by e-mail, 电子邮箱为mengxiang@mofcom.gov.cn . The organizer will guide the contractor to organize and carry out the collection, selection and publicity of the works. Works selection process adhere to the principles of fairness and impartiality, to the collection of works of practicality, creativity and connotation of the judgment criteria, the selection results in order of scores, co-ordination to determine the final selected works, and publicized on the website of the Ministry of Commerce. We will send a letter of thanks to the creators of the selected works (personnel, units or organizations). Other Matters (1) All works will be submitted by e-mail and will not be returned. The works must be original by the creators, and have not been publicly published in any form except in this collection, and the use of which shall not infringe the rights of third parties. If there is any dispute over infringement of rights in the works, the authors shall bear the corresponding legal responsibility and be disqualified from the competition. (b) Once the selected work is selected and a letter of appreciation is sent to the creator, the copyright, right of use and other related rights of the work shall belong to the organizer, and the creator (person, unit or group) shall not use or transfer the work to a third party by himself/herself. The laws of the People's Republic of China shall apply to this activity. Any dispute related to this activity shall be submitted to the Beijing Arbitration Commission for arbitration. The organizer has the final right to interpret this activity. Contact: 010-85093777, 010-85093780 Department of Circulation Development, Ministry of Commerce September 15, 2023
english_summary: The Ministry of Commerce's Circulation Development Department is seeking submissions for a logo to represent the urban quarter-hour convenient living circle construction work. The goal of this initiative is to create a community business circle that meets the basic and quality consumption needs of residents within a 15-minute walking distance service radius. The logo should reflect the core elements of quarter-hour, convenience, and life circle, as well as be simple, intuitive, and memorable. The entry deadline is September 30, 2023, and submissions can be made by sending the logo and a description of the creative concept, moral, etc., to <PRESIDIO_ANONYMIZED_EMAIL_ADDRESS>. The selected logo and its creator(s) will receive an appreciation letter, and the copyright and other related rights will belong to the organizer. The laws of the People's Republic of China will apply, and any disputes related to the competition will be arbitrated by the Beijing Arbitration Commission.
