html: nan
title: 商务部公告2023年第15号 关于泰国国家石油全球化学股份有限公司继承PTT苯酚有限公司在苯酚反倾销措施中所适用税率的公告
resulting_text: 2023年3月24日，商务部收到泰国国家石油全球化学股份有限公司（PTT Global Chemical Public Company Limited）提交的申请，该公司请求继承PTT苯酚有限公司（PTT Phenol Company Limited）在对原产于美国、欧盟、韩国、日本和泰国的进口苯酚实施的反倾销措施中所适用的反倾销税税率和其他权利义务。商务部对此进行了调查并作出继承税率的决定。现将有关事项公告如下： 一、PTT苯酚有限公司适用税率 2019年9月3日，商务部发布2019年第37号公告，决定对原产于美国、欧盟、韩国、日本和泰国的进口苯酚征收反倾销税，实施期限为5年。其中，PTT苯酚有限公司适用的反倾销税税率为10.6%。 二、调查程序 2023年3月24日，泰国国家石油全球化学股份有限公司向商务部提交申请，称自2023年2月1日起，其全资子公司PTT苯酚有限公司将包含苯酚在内的业务全部转移给泰国国家石油全球化学股份有限公司，故请求继承PTT苯酚有限公司在苯酚反倾销措施中的权利义务，并提交了两家公司的注册登记文件、公司章程，关于业务转移的董事会决议、税务变更申请及税务机关接受确认书、公司业务转移通知、全部业务转移协议，业务转移前后的股东名单、董事会名单、生产设备清单、原材料供应商名单、泰国国内销售和对中国出口客户名单等证明材料以及注册登记文件的泰国政府公证和中国驻泰使馆认证文件。 商务部就上述申请事宜通知了中国苯酚产业，中国苯酚产业对此不持异议。 三、继承税率决定 经审查，商务部认为，该公司的申请符合要求并附相应证据，其关于苯酚的经营管理由间接控制变为直接管理，公司业务转移前后的生产能力、供应商关系和客户基础等均未发生变化。 据此，商务部决定： （一）由泰国国家石油全球化学股份有限公司（PTT Global Chemical Public Company Limited）继承PTT苯酚有限公司（PTT Phenol Company Limited）在苯酚反倾销措施中所适用的10.6%的反倾销税税率和其他权利义务。 （二）以PTT苯酚有限公司（PTT Phenol Company Limited）名称向中国出口的苯酚，适用苯酚反倾销措施中“其他泰国公司”的28.6%反倾销税税率。 四、本公告自2023年4月27日起执行 中华人民共和国商务部 2023年4月26日
input_url: 20230428035922/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202304/20230403406758.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230426224232/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202304/20230403406758.shtml
date: 2023-04-28 00:00:00
translated_title: MOFCOM Announcement No. 15 of 2023 Announcement on the Duty Rate Applicable to Phenol Anti-Dumping Measures by PTT Phenol Company Limited Succeeded by Thai National Petroleum Global Chemical Co.
translated_content: On March 24, 2023, the Department of Commerce (DOC) received a petition filed by PTT Global Chemical Public Company Limited (PTT Global Chemical), the state-owned petroleum company of Thailand, requesting to succeed PTT Phenol Company Limited (PTT Phenol) in the anti-dumping duty rates and other rights and obligations applicable to imports of phenol originating from the U.S., the European Union, The company requested to inherit the anti-dumping duty rate and other rights and obligations applied by PTT Phenol Company Limited in the anti-dumping measures imposed on imports of phenol originating from the United States, the European Union, the Republic of Korea, Japan and Thailand. The Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) has conducted an investigation into the matter and made a decision on succession of duty rates. The relevant matters are announced as follows: I. Applicable Duty Rates of PTT Phenol Limited On September 3, 2019, the Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) issued Announcement No. 37 of 2019, deciding to impose anti-dumping duties on imported phenol originating from the United States, the European Union, South Korea, Japan, and Thailand, with an implementation period of five years. Among them, the anti-dumping duty rate applied by PTT Phenol Co. is 10.6%. II. Investigation Procedures On March 24, 2023, Thai National Petroleum Global Chemical Company Limited submitted an application to MOFCOM, stating that since February 1, 2023, its wholly-owned subsidiary, PTT Phenol Company Limited, transferred all of its business, including phenol, to Thai National Petroleum Global Chemical Company Limited, and therefore requested to inherit PTT Phenol Company Limited's rights and obligations under the anti-dumping measures on phenol Ltd. and submitted the registration documents of the two companies, articles of association, board of directors' resolution on the transfer of business, application for tax change and confirmation of acceptance by the tax authorities, notice of transfer of business, agreement on transfer of business, list of shareholders before and after the transfer of business, list of the board of directors, list of production equipment, list of suppliers of raw materials, list of customers for domestic sales in Thailand and for export to China, and supporting documents for the registration documents. Notarization of the registration documents by the Thai government and authentication of the documents by the Chinese Embassy in Thailand. MOFCOM notified the Chinese phenol industry of the above application, and the Chinese phenol industry had no objection. After reviewing the application, MOFCOM finds that the company's application meets the requirements and is accompanied by corresponding evidence, that the company's management of phenol has changed from indirect control to direct management, and that the company's production capacity, supplier relationship and customer base before and after the transfer of its business have remained unchanged. Accordingly, the Ministry of Commerce decides that: (1) PTT Global Chemical Public Company Limited shall succeed PTT Phenol Company Limited to the 10.6% anti-dumping duty rate and other rights and obligations applicable to the anti-dumping measure on phenol. other rights and obligations. (ii) Phenol exported to China under the name of PTT Phenol Company Limited (PTT Phenol Company Limited) shall be subject to the anti-dumping duty rate of 28.6% of the anti-dumping duty rate of "other Thai companies" under the anti-dumping measures on phenol. This Notice shall be effective as of April 27, 2023 Ministry of Commerce of the People's Republic of China April 26, 2023
english_summary: The Ministry of Commerce of the People's Republic of China announced on April 26, 2023, that Thai National Petroleum Global Chemical Company Limited has succeeded PTT Phenol Company Limited in the anti-dumping duty rates and other rights and obligations applicable to imports of phenol originating from the United States, the European Union, South Korea, Japan, and Thailand. The duty rate applied by PTT Phenol Co. is 10.6%, which will now be applied by Thai National Petroleum Global Chemical Company Limited. The company's application to succeed PTT Phenol Company Limited's rights and obligations was approved due to the transfer of all of PTT Phenol Company Limited's business, including phenol, to Thai National Petroleum Global Chemical Company Limited, and the fact that the company's management of phenol has changed from indirect control to direct management. Additionally, the production capacity, supplier relationship, and customer base of the companies involved have remained unchanged. This decision applies to phenol exported to China under the name of PTT Phenol Company Limited and is effective as of April 27, 2023.
