html: nan
title: 商务部公告2024年第3号 关于对原产于日本和印度的进口邻二氯苯所适用的反倾销措施发起期终复审调查的公告
resulting_text: 2019年1月22日，商务部发布2019年第1号公告，决定对原产于日本和印度的进口邻二氯苯征收反倾销税，反倾销税率分别为日本70.4%，印度31.9%，实施期限五年。 2023年10月13日，商务部收到江苏扬农化工集团有限公司代表中国邻二氯苯产业提交的反倾销措施期终复审申请书。申请人主张，如果终止反倾销措施，原产于日本和印度的进口邻二氯苯对中国的倾销可能继续或再度发生，对中国产业造成的损害可能继续或再度发生，请求商务部对原产于日本和印度的进口邻二氯苯进行期终复审调查，并维持对原产于日本和印度的进口邻二氯苯实施的反倾销措施。 根据《中华人民共和国反倾销条例》有关规定，商务部对申请人资格、被调查产品和中国同类产品有关情况、反倾销措施实施期间被调查产品进口情况、倾销继续或再度发生的可能性、损害继续或再度发生的可能性及相关证据等进行了审查。现有证据表明，申请人符合《中华人民共和国反倾销条例》第十一条、第十三条和第十七条关于产业及产业代表性的规定，有资格代表中国邻二氯苯产业提出申请。调查机关认为，申请人的主张以及所提交的表面证据符合期终复审立案的要求。 根据《中华人民共和国反倾销条例》第四十八条规定，商务部决定自2024年1月23日起，对原产于日本和印度的进口邻二氯苯所适用的反倾销措施进行期终复审调查。现将有关事项公告如下： 一、继续实施反倾销措施 根据商务部建议，国务院关税税则委员会决定，在反倾销措施期终复审调查期间，对原产于日本和印度的进口邻二氯苯继续按照商务部2019年第1号公告公布的征税产品范围和税率征收反倾销税。 对各公司征收的反倾销税税率如下： 日本公司： 1.株式会社吴羽                               70.4% （KUREHA CORPORATION） 2.其他日本公司                               70.4% 印度公司: 所有印度公司                  31.9% 二、复审调查期 本次复审的倾销调查期为2022年10月1日至2023年9月30日，产业损害调查期为2019年1月1日至2023年9月30日。 三、复审调查产品范围 复审产品范围是原反倾销措施所适用的产品，与商务部2019年第1号公告公布的反倾销措施所适用的产品范围一致，具体如下: 产品名称：邻二氯苯 英文名称：Ortho Dichlorobenzene、1,2-Dichlorobenzene、O-Dichlorobenzene等，简称ODCB。 分子结构：C 6 H 4 Cl 2 化学结构式： 产品描述：邻二氯苯是一种有机化工产品，外观通常为无色易挥发的流质液体，不溶于水，溶于醇、醚等多数有机溶剂。 主要用途：邻二氯苯可用于生产3,4-二氯硝基苯、2,3-二氯硝基苯、氟氯苯胺、2,4-二氯-5-氟苯乙酮等化工产品，进而广泛应用于农药、医药以及染料等众多领域。同时，邻二氯苯也是优良的有机溶剂（如作染料溶剂、TDI溶剂等）。 该产品归在《中华人民共和国进出口税则》：29039110。 四、复审内容 本次复审调查的内容为：如果终止对原产于日本和印度的进口邻二氯苯实施的反倾销措施，是否可能导致倾销和损害的继续或再度发生。 五、登记参加调查 利害关系方可于公告发布之日起20日内，向商务部贸易救济调查局登记参加本次反倾销期终复审调查。参加调查的利害关系方应根据《登记参加调查的参考格式》提供基本身份信息、向中国出口或进口本案被调查产品的数量及金额、生产和销售同类产品的数量及金额以及关联情况等说明材料。《登记参加调查的参考格式》可在商务部网站贸易救济调查局子网站下载。 利害关系方登记参加本次反倾销调查，应通过“贸易救济调查信息化平台”（http://etrb.mofcom.gov.cn）提交电子版本，并根据商务部的要求，同时提交书面版本。电子版本和书面版本内容应相同，格式应保持一致。 本公告所称的利害关系方是指《中华人民共和国反倾销条例》第十九条规定的个人和组织。 六、查阅公开信息 利害关系方可在商务部网站贸易救济调查局子网站下载或到商务部贸易救济公开信息查阅室（电话：0086-10-65197878）查找、阅览、抄录并复印本案申请人提交的申请书的非保密文本。调查过程中，利害关系方可通过相关网站或到商务部贸易救济公开信息查阅室查找、阅览、抄录并复印案件公开信息。 七、对立案的评论 利害关系方对本次调查的产品范围及申请人资格、被调查国家（地区）及其他相关问题如需发表评论，可于公告发布之日起20天内将书面意见提交至商务部贸易救济调查局。 八、调查方式 根据《中华人民共和国反倾销条例》第二十条的规定，商务部可以采用问卷、抽样、听证会、现场核查等方式向有关利害关系方了解情况，进行调查。 为获得本案调查所需要的信息，商务部通常在本公告规定的登记参加调查截止之日起10个工作日内向利害关系方发放调查问卷。利害关系方可以从商务部网站贸易救济调查局子网站下载调查问卷。 利害关系方应在规定时间内提交完整、准确的答卷。答卷应当包括调查问卷所要求的全部信息。 九、信息的提交和处理 利害关系方在调查过程中提交评论意见、答卷等，应通过“贸易救济调查信息化平台”（http://etrb.mofcom.gov.cn）提交电子版本，并根据商务部的要求，同时提交书面版本。电子版本和书面版本内容应相同，格式应保持一致。 利害关系方向商务部提交的信息如需保密，可向商务部提出对相关信息进行保密处理的请求并说明理由。如商务部同意其请求，申请保密的利害关系方应同时提供该保密信息的非保密概要。非保密概要应当包含充分的有意义的信息，以使其他利害关系方对保密信息能有合理的理解。如不能提供非保密概要，应说明理由。如利害关系方提交的信息未说明需要保密，商务部将视该信息为公开信息。 十、不合作的后果 根据《中华人民共和国反倾销条例》第二十一条的规定，商务部进行调查时，利害关系方应当如实反映情况，提供有关资料。利害关系方不如实反映情况、提供有关资料的，或者没有在合理时间内提供必要信息的，或者以其他方式严重妨碍调查的，商务部可以根据已经获得的事实和可获得的最佳信息作出裁定。 十一、调查期限 本次调查自2024年1月23日开始，应于2025年1月23日前（不含本日）结束。 十二、商务部联系方式 地址：中国北京市东长安街2号 邮编：100731 商务部贸易救济调查局 进口调查三处 电话：0086-10-65197586、65198175 传真：0086-10-65198172 相关网站：商务部网站贸易救济调查局子网站（网址为http://trb.mofcom.gov.cn） 中华人民共和国商务部 2024年1月22日 附件： 邻二氯苯反倾销措施期终复审调查申请书（公开文本）-正文 邻二氯苯反倾销措施期终复审调查申请书（公开文本）-附件 邻二氯苯反倾销期终复审登记参加调查的参考格式
input_url: 20240123022628/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202401/20240103467882.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20240122085223/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202401/20240103467882.shtml
date: 2024-01-23 00:00:00
translated_title: MOFCOM Announcement No. 3 of 2024 Announcement on the Initiation of End-of-Term Review Investigation on Anti-Dumping Measures Applied to Imports of O-Dichlorobenzene Originating from Japan and India
translated_content: On January 22, 2019, the Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) issued Announcement No. 1 of 2019, deciding to impose anti-dumping duties on imports of o-dichlorobenzene originating from Japan and India, with anti-dumping duty rates of 70.4% for Japan and 31.9% for India, respectively, for an implementation period of five years. On October 13, 2023, MOFCOM received an application for end-of-period review of the anti-dumping measures submitted by Jiangsu Yangnong Chemical Group Co. on behalf of the Chinese o-dichlorobenzene industry. The applicant claimed that if the anti-dumping measures were terminated, the dumping of imported o-dichlorobenzene originating from Japan and India into China might continue or reoccur, and the damages caused to the Chinese industry might continue or reoccur, and requested MOFCOM to conduct a final review investigation of the imported o-dichlorobenzene originating from Japan and India, and to maintain the anti-dumping measures imposed on the imported o-dichlorobenzene originating from Japan and India. In accordance with the relevant provisions of the Regulations of the People's Republic of China on Anti-Dumping, the Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) reviewed the qualifications of the applicant, the situation of the investigated products and similar products in China, the imports of the investigated products during the period of implementation of the anti-dumping measures, the likelihood of the continuation or recurrence of dumping, the likelihood of the continuation or recurrence of injury, and the relevant evidence. The available evidence shows that the applicant meets the requirements of Articles 11, 13 and 17 of the Anti-Dumping Regulations of the People's Republic of China regarding the industry and its representation, and that it is qualified to make the application on behalf of the Chinese o-dichlorobenzene industry. The Investigating Authority is of the view that the applicant's claims and the prima facie evidence submitted meet the requirements for filing a final review case. In accordance with Article 48 of the Anti-Dumping Regulations of the People's Republic of China, the Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) has decided to conduct an end-of-period review investigation, commencing on January 23, 2024, into the anti-dumping measures applied to the imports of o-dichlorobenzene originating from Japan and India. The relevant matters are hereby announced as follows: I. Continuation of anti-dumping measures Based on the recommendation of the Ministry of Commerce, the Customs Tariff Commission of the State Council has decided to continue to impose anti-dumping duties on the imports of o-dichlorobenzene originating from Japan and India according to the scope of dutiable products and the duty rate published in the Announcement No. 1 of 2019 of the Ministry of Commerce during the period of end-of-period review investigation of the anti-dumping measures. The anti-dumping duty rates imposed on each company are as follows: Japanese companies: 1. Kureha Corporation 70.4% (KUREHA CORPORATION) 2. Other Japanese companies 70.4% Indian companies: All Indian companies 31.9% II. Review investigation period The dumping investigation period of this review is from October 1, 2022 to September 30, 2023, and the industrial damage investigation period is from January 1, 2019 to September 30, 2023, industrial injury investigation period. The scope of products under review is the same as that of the original anti-dumping measures, and is consistent with the scope of products under the anti-dumping measures announced by the Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) in its Announcement No. 1 of 2019, as follows: Product name: o-dichlorobenzene English names: Ortho Dichlorobenzene, 1,2-Dichlorobenzene, O- Dichlorobenzene, etc., abbreviated as ODCB. Molecular structure: C 6 H 4 Cl 2 Chemical structure formula: Product description: o-Dichlorobenzene is an organic chemical product, the appearance of which is usually a colorless and volatile fluid liquid, insoluble in water, soluble in alcohols, ethers and other most organic solvents. Main applications: o-Dichlorobenzene can be used to produce 3,4-dichloronitrobenzene, 2,3-dichloronitrobenzene, fluorochloroaniline, 2,4-dichloro-5-fluoroacetophenone and other chemical products, which are widely used in pesticides, pharmaceuticals and dyes and many other fields. Meanwhile, o-Dichlorobenzene is also an excellent organic solvent (e.g. as solvent for dyestuff, TDI solvent, etc.). The product is categorized in the "Import and Export Tariff Code of the People's Republic of China": 29039110. The content of the review The content of this review investigation is: if the termination of the anti-dumping measures imposed on imports of o-dichlorobenzene originating in Japan and India, whether it is likely to result in the continuation of dumping and injury or re-occurrence. V. Registration to participate in the investigation Stakeholders can register with the Trade Remedy Bureau of the Ministry of Commerce to participate in the anti-dumping final review investigation within 20 days from the date of the announcement. The interested party to participate in the investigation shall, according to the Reference Form for Registration to Participate in the Investigation, provide basic identification information, the quantity and amount of the products exported or imported to China, the quantity and amount of the production and sale of similar products, as well as explanatory materials such as the related situation. The Reference Form for Registration to Participate in the Investigation can be downloaded from the sub-site of the Trade Remedy Investigation Bureau on the website of the Ministry of Commerce. Stakeholders registering to participate in the anti-dumping investigation shall submit an electronic version through the "Trade Remedy Investigation Informationization Platform" (http://etrb.mofcom.gov.cn) and a written version at the same time according to the requirements of the Ministry of Commerce. The contents of the electronic version and the written version shall be the same and the format shall be consistent. The stakeholders referred to in this Notice are the individuals and organizations specified in Article 19 of the Anti-Dumping Regulations of the People's Republic of China. Interested parties may download from the sub-site of Trade Remedy Investigation Bureau on the website of the Ministry of Commerce or go to the Trade Remedy Public Information Inspection Room of the Ministry of Commerce (Tel: 0086-10-65197878) to find, read, copy and photocopy the non-confidential text of the application submitted by the applicant in this case. During the process of investigation, interested parties may find, read, transcribe and copy the public information of the case through the relevant website or at the Trade Remedy Public Information Inspection Room of the Ministry of Commerce. Comments on the case Stakeholders who wish to comment on the scope of the products under investigation and the qualifications of the applicant, the country (region) under investigation and other related issues may submit their written comments to the Trade Remedies Bureau of the Ministry of Commerce within 20 days from the date of the publication of the announcement. VIII. Investigation Methods According to the provisions of Article 20 of the "Regulations of the People's Republic of China on Anti-Dumping", the Ministry of Commerce can use questionnaires, sampling, hearings, on-site verification and other ways to the relevant stakeholders to understand the situation and conduct investigations. In order to obtain the information required for the investigation of this case, MOFCOM usually issues questionnaires to stakeholders within 10 working days from the deadline for registration to participate in the investigation as stipulated in this announcement. Stakeholders can download the questionnaire from the sub-site of the Trade Remedies Investigation Bureau on the MOFCOM website. Stakeholders shall submit complete and accurate responses within the prescribed time. The answer sheet should include all the information required by the questionnaire. Submission and Handling of Information Stakeholders submitting comments, answer sheets, etc. in the course of the investigation shall submit the electronic version through the Trade Remedy Investigation Informationization Platform (http://etrb.mofcom.gov.cn), and submit the written version at the same time in accordance with the requirements of the Ministry of Commerce. The content of the electronic version and the written version shall be the same and the format shall be consistent. If the information submitted by the interested party to the MOFCOM needs to be kept confidential, the interested party may make a request to the MOFCOM for confidential treatment of the relevant information and state the reasons. If MOFCOM grants the request, the stakeholder applying for confidentiality shall also provide a non-confidential summary of the confidential information. The non-confidential summary should contain sufficient meaningful information to enable other stakeholders to have a reasonable understanding of the confidential information. If a non-confidential summary cannot be provided, a reason should be given. If a stakeholder submits information that does not indicate the need for confidentiality, MOFCOM will treat the information as public. X. Consequences of Non-cooperation According to Article 21 of the Regulations of the People's Republic of China on Anti-Dumping, when MOFCOM conducts an investigation, the interested party shall truthfully reflect the situation and provide relevant information. If the interested party fails to reflect the situation truthfully and provide relevant information, or fails to provide the necessary information within a reasonable period of time, or seriously obstructs the investigation in other ways, MOFCOM may make a ruling based on the facts already obtained and the best information available. XI. Duration of the Investigation The investigation started on January 23, 2024 and shall be concluded before January 23, 2025 (excluding this date). XII. Contact Information of the Ministry of Commerce Address: No. 2, East Chang'an Street, Beijing, China Zip Code: 100731 Trade Remedy Investigation Bureau of the Ministry of Commerce Import Investigation Division No. 3 Tel: 0086-10-65197586, 65198175 Fax: 0086-10-65198172 Relevant Websites: Sub-website of the Trade Remedy Investigation Bureau of the Ministry of Commerce's website at http://trb (.mofcom.gov.cn) Ministry of Commerce, People's Republic of China January 22, 2024 Annex: Application for Final Review of Anti-Dumping Measures on o-Dichlorobenzene (Open Text) - Text Application for Final Review of Anti-Dumping Measures on o-Dichlorobenzene (Open Text) - Annex Reference Format of Registration for Participation in the Investigation of the Antidumping Period for O-Dichlorobenzene
english_summary: The Ministry of Commerce of the People's Republic of China (MOFCOM) has announced a decision to launch an end-of-term review investigation on anti-dumping measures applied to imports of o-dichlorobenzene originating from Japan and India. The investigation will determine whether the termination of the anti-dumping measures would likely result in the continuation of dumping and injury or the reoccurrence. The review investigation started on January 23, 2024, and will end before January 23, 2025 (excluding this date).
