html: nan
title: 跨境投资高质量发展圆桌会在第六届中国国际进口博览会期间成功举办
resulting_text: 为落实第三届“一带一路”国际合作高峰论坛有关成果，推动我国对外投资合作高质量发展，促进高水平对外开放，服务构建新发展格局，跨境投资高质量发展圆桌会于11月7日在第六届中国国际进口博览会期间在上海成功举办。 商务部对外投资和经济合作司司长张力发表主旨演讲，上海市商务委员会总经济师罗志松、中国对外承包工程商会会长房秋晨、中国机电产品进出口商会常务副会长郑超、商务部投资促进事务局副局长于广生等嘉宾发言。 大家表示，高质量发展是全面建设社会主义现代化国家的首要任务。要以习近平新时代中国特色社会主义思想为指导，深入学习贯彻党的二十大精神，以共建“一带一路”倡议为引领，紧密围绕商务工作“三个重要定位”，统筹发展和安全，推动对外投资合作平稳健康发展，为构建开放型经济新体制、促进经济社会发展、服务国家大局发挥重要作用。 会议期间，商务部对外投资和经济合作司、中国对外承包工程商会共同发布了《境外中资企业机构和人员安全管理指南》。新版《指南》旨在指导企业科学建立境外安全风险管理体系，将为企业进一步做好境外中资企业机构和人员安全风险防范工作提供务实有效的参考借鉴。 会议由商务部对外投资和经济合作司、商务部投资促进事务局和上海市商务委员会联合主办，境外中资企业商（协）会联席会议、中国对外承包工程商会承办。来自商务部及有关部委相关司局、地方商务主管部门、中央及地方企业、金融机构、境内外商协会、智库及专业服务机构等单位的约180名代表参会。
input_url: 20231117204225/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202311/20231103453542.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20231115173900/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202311/20231103453542.shtml
date: 2023-11-18 00:00:00
translated_title: Roundtable on High-Quality Development of Cross-Border Investment Successfully Held during the 6th China International Import Expo (CIIE)
translated_content: In order to implement the relevant outcomes of the Third "Belt and Road" International Cooperation Summit Forum, promote the high-quality development of China's outbound investment cooperation, promote high-level opening-up, and serve the construction of a new development pattern, the Roundtable on High-Quality Development of Cross-Border Investment was successfully held on November 7 in Shanghai during the Sixth China International Import Expo (CIIE). Mr. Zhang Li, Director of the Department of Foreign Investment and Economic Cooperation of the Ministry of Commerce, delivered a keynote speech, while Mr. Luo Zhisong, Chief Economist of Shanghai Municipal Commission of Commerce, Mr. Fang Qiuchen, President of China Chamber of Commerce for Contracted Projects Abroad (CCCPA), Mr. Zheng Chao, Executive Vice-President of China Chamber of Commerce for the Importation and Exportation of Machinery and Electronic Products (CCCME), Mr. Yu Guangsheng, Deputy Director of the Investment Promotion Bureau of the Ministry of Commerce, and other guests spoke. Everyone said that high-quality development is the primary task of building a modern socialist country in an all-round way. We should take Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era as our guide, study and implement the spirit of the 20th CPC National Congress in depth, take the construction of the "Belt and Road" Initiative as our guide, closely focus on the "three important positions" of commercial work, integrate development and security, promote the stable and healthy development of outbound investment and cooperation, and contribute to the construction of an open and modernized country. It will promote the stable and healthy development of outward investment and cooperation, and play an important role in building a new open economic system, promoting economic and social development, and serving the overall situation of the country. During the conference, the Department of Foreign Investment and Economic Cooperation of the Ministry of Commerce and the China Chamber of Commerce for Contracted Projects Abroad (CCCPA) jointly released the Guidelines on Safety Management for Overseas Chinese Enterprises' Organizations and Personnel. The new version of the Guide is aimed at guiding enterprises to establish overseas security risk management system scientifically, which will provide practical and effective reference for enterprises to further do a good job in preventing security risks of overseas Chinese-funded enterprises' organizations and personnel. The conference was jointly organized by the Department of Foreign Investment and Economic Cooperation of the Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM), the Investment Promotion Bureau of MOFCOM and the Shanghai Municipal Commission of Commerce (SMC), and was hosted by the Joint Conference of Overseas Chinese Enterprises Chambers of Commerce and the China Chamber of Commerce for Contracted Projects Abroad (CCCPA). About 180 representatives from relevant departments and bureaus of the Ministry of Commerce and other relevant ministries, local commerce authorities, central and local enterprises, financial institutions, domestic and foreign business associations, think tanks and professional service organizations attended the conference.
english_summary: The Roundtable on High-Quality Development of Cross-Border Investment was held during the 6th China International Import Expo to promote high-quality development of China's outbound investment cooperation and serve the construction of a new development pattern.
