html: nan
title: 商务部 海关总署 国家药监局关于恢复中药天花粉及制剂出口的通知
resulting_text: 各省、自治区、直辖市及计划单列市、新疆生产建设兵团商务主管部门、药品监督管理局，海关总署广东分署，各直属海关： 为促进中药产品对外贸易，综合考虑我国天花粉及其制剂出口企业诉求、生产情况等，即日起恢复天花粉及其制剂出口。原卫生部、原经贸部、海关总署《关于加强对中药天花粉及制剂管理的通知》〔卫药字（89）第54号〕同时废止。 请各地海关据此做好相关产品出口验放工作。有关出口企业要确保产品质量安全、符合相关标准要求，自觉维护中国产品国际声誉。 商务部  海关总署  国家药监局 2024年1月5日
input_url: 20240113233848/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202401/20240103466059.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20240111114739/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202401/20240103466059.shtml
date: 2024-01-14 00:00:00
translated_title: Ministry of Commerce, General Administration of Customs, State Drug Administration on the Resumption of Export of Traditional Chinese Medicine Smallpox Powder and Preparations
translated_content: Provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities and municipalities directly under the Central Government, Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps, the competent departments of commerce, Drug Administration, the Guangdong Branch of the General Administration of Customs, the Customs Department: In order to promote foreign trade in traditional Chinese medicine products, taking into account China's smallpox powder and its preparations for the export of enterprise demands, production, etc., with immediate effect to restore the smallpox powder and its preparations for export. The former Ministry of Health, the former Ministry of Economy and Trade, the General Administration of Customs "on strengthening the management of traditional Chinese medicine smallpox powder and preparations notice" [Wei drug word (89) No. 54] is repealed at the same time. Customs around the world to do a good job according to the relevant products export inspection and release. The relevant export enterprises to ensure product quality and safety, in line with relevant standards, consciously maintain the international reputation of Chinese products. Ministry of Commerce General Administration of Customs State Drug Administration January 5, 2024
english_summary: The Ministry of Commerce, General Administration of Customs, and State Drug Administration have announced the resumption of exporting traditional Chinese medicine smallpox powder and preparations. This measure aims to promote foreign trade in traditional Chinese medicine products and address the demands of enterprises for exports. The former Ministry of Health, former Ministry of Economy and Trade, and General Administration of Customs' notice on strengthening the management of traditional Chinese medicine smallpox powder and preparations is repealed. Customs worldwide are instructed to perform necessary inspections and releases of the products. Exporting enterprises are required to ensure product quality and safety, in line with relevant standards, in order to maintain the international reputation of Chinese products.
