html: nan
title: 商务部办公厅关于做好2024年度汽车和摩托车出口许可申报工作的通知
resulting_text: 各省、自治区、直辖市及计划单列市、新疆生产建设兵团商务主管部门： 为进一步规范汽车、摩托车出口秩序，根据《商务部 工业和信息化部 海关总署 质检总局 国家认监委关于进一步规范汽车和摩托车产品出口秩序的通知》（商产发〔2012〕318号），现将2024年度汽车和摩托车出口许可申报工作有关要求通知如下： 一、申报形式及流程 （一）为优化企业申报流程，提升数字化管理水平，本年度采用线上形式开展汽车和摩托车出口许可申报相关工作。 （二）生产企业可登录汽车及摩托车出口许可申报系统企业端（https://ecomp.licence.org.cn），填写申请表，上传相关证明材料，提交至所在地商务主管部门审核。企业可线上查询审核进度、公示结果及公告名单。 （三）地方商务主管部门可登录汽车及摩托车出口许可申报系统地方管理端（https://emanage.licence.org.cn），对本地企业申报材料进行初核，整理汇总本地区企业申报情况并上报至商务部。地方商务主管部门可在系统中查询审核进度、公示结果及公告名单，统计及导出本地区企业申报情况，并在公示期内对有异议的企业提交的修改材料进行二次审核并上报至商务部。 （四）企业、地方商务主管部门可在系统登录页面下载用户操作手册。 二、有关要求 （一）2024年度线上申报系统将于2023年9月18日开通。请各地商务主管部门组织和指导本地区企业做好线上申报工作，如实准确填报相关信息。商务部将对有关申报材料的真实性进行核查，如发现企业提供虚假材料的，将根据有关规定，视情况对其进行通报、警告、暂停或取消从事汽车或摩托车出口资格。 （二）各地商务主管部门应于2023年10月8日前完成汽车和摩托车企业出口许可申报材料初核并线上提交至商务部，纸质材料报送至商务部行政事务服务大厅（邮递单请注明“汽车摩托车出口许可申报材料”字样）。 邮寄地址：北京市东城区东长安街2号商务部行政事务服务大厅（汽车、摩托车） 收件人及电话：韦日昊     010-65197964 （三）各地商务主管部门报至商务部的纸质材料包括： 1.本地区汽车和摩托车企业申报出口许可总体情况； 2.企业申请汇总表（由汽车及摩托车出口许可申报系统导出，模版见附件）； 3.边境地区有关省、自治区商务主管部门如推荐边贸企业，需提供企业有关材料（暂不通过线上系统申报），以及上年度所推荐边贸企业的出口经营情况。 系统填报问题可联系商务部许可证局（联系电话：010-84095747）；政策咨询可联系商务部外贸司（联系电话：010-65197368）。 附件： 符合申领汽车及摩托车出口许可证条件企业申请汇总表.docx 商务部办公厅 2023年9月12日
input_url: 20230915211450/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202309/20230903440856.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230921153816/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202309/20230903440856.shtml
date: 2023-09-16 00:00:00
translated_title: Circular of the General Office of the Ministry of Commerce on the Declaration of Export Licenses for Automobiles and Motorcycles for the Year 2024
translated_content: Provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the Central Government and municipalities with separate plans, the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps, the competent departments of commerce: In order to further regulate the order of automobile and motorcycle exports, according to the "Ministry of Commerce, Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, the General Administration of Customs, General Administration of Quality Supervision, Certification and Accreditation Administration of the State on the further standardization of the order of automobile and motorcycle exports notice" (Commerce and Industrial Development 〔2012〕 No. 318), the year 2024 will be the automobile and motorcycle export license declaration requirements are notified as follows The relevant requirements for the 2024 automobile and motorcycle export license declaration are notified as follows: I. Declaration Form and Process (1) In order to optimize the declaration process for enterprises and enhance the level of digital management, this year, an online form is adopted to carry out the work related to the declaration of automobile and motorcycle export licenses. (b) Enterprises can log on to the enterprise side of the Automobile and Motorcycle Export License Declaration System (https://ecomp.licence.org.cn), fill in the application form, upload relevant supporting materials and submit it to the competent department of commerce at their location for review. Enterprises can check the progress of the audit, the results of public announcement and the announcement list online. (c) Local competent authorities in charge of commerce can log in to the local management terminal of the Automobile and Motorcycle Export Permit Declaration System (https://emanage.licence.org.cn), conduct preliminary checking of the declaration materials of local enterprises, organize and summarize the declarations made by enterprises in the region and report them to the Ministry of Commerce. The local competent commercial department can check the progress of the audit, the result of public announcement and the list of announcements in the system, compile statistics and export the declarations of the enterprises in the region, and conduct a second audit of the modified materials submitted by the enterprises with objections during the period of public announcement and report them to the Ministry of Commerce. (d) Enterprises and local commerce authorities can download the user operation manual from the system login page. (II) Relevant Requirements (I) The online reporting system for the year 2024 will be opened on September 18, 2023. Please ask the local commerce authorities to organize and guide the enterprises in their regions to do a good job in online declaration and fill in the relevant information truthfully and accurately. The Ministry of Commerce will verify the authenticity of the relevant declaration materials. If enterprises are found to have provided false materials, they will be notified, warned, suspended or disqualified from engaging in the export of automobiles or motorcycles, as appropriate, in accordance with the relevant regulations. (ii) The competent departments of commerce in each region shall complete the preliminary verification of the export license declaration materials of automobile and motorcycle enterprises before October 8, 2023 and submit them online to the Ministry of Commerce, while the paper materials shall be submitted to the Administrative Affairs Service Hall of the Ministry of Commerce (please indicate the words "Automobile and Motorcycle Export License Declaration Materials" on the mailing list). Mailing address: Administrative Affairs Service Hall of the Ministry of Commerce, No. 2 Dong Chang'an Street, Dongcheng District, Beijing (for automobiles and motorcycles) Recipient and telephone number: Wei Rihao 010-65197964 (c) The paper materials reported by the competent authorities in charge of commerce of the localities to the Ministry of Commerce shall include: 1) overall situation of the automobile and motorcycle enterprises in the region declaring for export licenses; 2) summary table of the enterprises' applications (exported by the automobile and motorcycle export license declaration system, and the template is attached) 3. If the competent departments of commerce of the relevant provinces and autonomous regions in the border areas recommend the border trade enterprises, they need to provide the relevant materials of the enterprises (not to be declared through the online system for the time being), as well as the export operation of the recommended border trade enterprises in the previous year. The system can be filled out by contacting the License Bureau of the Ministry of Commerce (Tel: 010-84095747); policy advice can be contacted by the Department of Foreign Trade of the Ministry of Commerce (Tel: 010-65197368). Attachment: Application Summary Table for Enterprises Eligible to Apply for Automobile and Motorcycle Export Licenses.docx General Office of the Ministry of Commerce September 12, 2023
english_summary: The General Office of the Ministry of Commerce has issued a circular on the declaration of export licenses for automobiles and motorcycles for the year 2024. The circular outlines the online declaration process and relevant requirements for automobile and motorcycle exports. The system will be open on September 18, 2023, and local commerce authorities are responsible for organizing and guiding enterprises in their regions to do online declaration, ensuring the accuracy of information, and conducting preliminary verification. The Ministry of Commerce will verify the authenticity of the declaration materials, and the system will have a second audit of the modified materials submitted by enterprises with objections during the period of public announcement. Enterprises found to have provided false materials will face penalties such as being suspended or disqualified from engaging in the export of automobiles or motorcycles.
