html: nan
title: 商务部等部门印发《促进家政服务业提质扩容 2023年工作要点》
resulting_text: 近日，商务部、发展改革委联合印发了《促进家政服务业提质扩容2023年工作要点》。促进家政服务业提质扩容部际联席会议成员单位将从六个方面实施25项具体措施，推进家政服务业提质扩容。 一是提高从业人员职业素养。 实施家政服务员技能升级行动，整合线上线下培训资源；开展巾帼家政服务培训和工会家政就业技能培训项目试点、工会家政专业阳光暖心项目试点等；引导院校加强家政专业建设，打造一批核心课程、优质教材、教师团队、实践项目。 二是强化政府监管和行业自律。 制定家政服务业自律公约，引导家政企业开展优质服务承诺，主动公开服务标准、价格等信息；升级家政服务信用信息平台，强化信用信息共用；实施家政服务标准化专项行动，推动出台一批国家标准、行业标准、地方标准和团体标准。 三是搭建供需对接平台。 深入实施家政兴农行动；持续开展家政劳务对接，加大家政劳务品牌建设和宣传推介力度；积极培育员工制家政企业；开展家政服务对接招聘活动。 四是积极推动家政进社区。 加强家政进社区经验交流；积极发展居家婴幼儿照护服务，统筹考虑社区婴幼儿照护设施与家政服务网点有机融合，拓展社区托育服务功能；发挥妇联组织作用推进家政进社区，推动社区家政服务和妇女工作联动发展。 五是提升从业人员保障水平。 保障灵活就业家政服务员权益；鼓励保险机构研发家政相关商业保险产品；提高家政服务员就业质量，引导家政企业规范用工。 六是落实助企纾困政策。 贯彻落实就业促进政策，指导各地继续对符合条件的家政企业和从业人员按规定落实创业担保贷款、一次性创业补贴、社保补贴，以及失业保险稳岗返还、技能提升补贴等政策；落实小规模纳税人减免增值税、增值税加计抵减、“六税两费”减免等政策。 下一步，商务部将会同相关部门持续抓好政策落实，积极推动家政服务业提质扩容，促进家政服务业高质量发展，提振家政服务消费，更好满足人民群众美好生活服务需要。
input_url: 20230515224557/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202305/20230503409893.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230516104047/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202305/20230503409893.shtml
date: 2023-05-16 00:00:00
translated_title: Ministry of Commerce and Other Departments Issue Work Points for Promoting Quality and Capacity Expansion of Domestic Service Industry in 2023
translated_content: Recently, the Ministry of Commerce and the Development and Reform Commission jointly issued the Work Points for Promoting the Quality and Expansion of the Domestic Service Industry in 2023. Promote the quality and expansion of the domestic service industry inter-ministerial joint conference members will implement 25 specific measures in six areas to promote the quality and expansion of the domestic service industry. First, improve the professionalism of practitioners. The implementation of domestic helper skills upgrading action, the integration of online and offline training resources; to carry out women's domestic service training and trade unions domestic employment skills training program pilot, trade unions domestic professional sunshine warming program pilot, etc.; to guide the institutions to strengthen the construction of the domestic professional, to create a number of core courses, high-quality teaching materials, teacher teams, practice projects. Second, strengthening government supervision and industry self-regulation. It has formulated a self-regulatory convention for the domestic service industry, guided domestic service enterprises to carry out high-quality service commitments, and proactively disclosed information on service standards and prices; upgraded the credit information platform for domestic service, and strengthened the sharing of credit information; and carried out special actions for the standardization of domestic service, and pushed forward the introduction of a batch of national standards, industry standards, local standards, and group standards. Third, build a supply and demand docking platform. In-depth implementation of home economics to promote agricultural action; continue to carry out domestic labor docking, increase domestic labor branding and publicity and promotion; actively cultivate the staff system of domestic enterprises; carry out domestic service docking recruitment activities. The fourth is to actively promote home economics into the community. Strengthening the exchange of experience in home economics in the community; actively developing home-based infant and child care services, considering the organic integration of community infant and child care facilities and home economics service outlets, and expanding the function of community child care services; playing the role of women's federation organizations to promote home economics in the community, and promoting the development of community-based home economics services and women's work in the linkage. Fifth, raising the level of protection for practitioners. It protects the rights and interests of flexibly employed domestic helpers; encourages insurance organizations to research and develop domestic help-related commercial insurance products; improves the quality of employment for domestic helpers; and guides domestic help enterprises to standardize the employment of workers. Sixth, implementing policies to help enterprises alleviate their difficulties. It has implemented employment promotion policies, guiding localities to continue to implement policies such as guaranteed loans for business start-ups, one-time business start-up subsidies, social security subsidies, unemployment insurance job stabilization refunds, and subsidies for skills upgrading for eligible domestic service enterprises and employees; and implemented policies such as value-added tax (VAT) exemptions and reductions for small-scale taxpayers, VAT credits and reductions for the "Six Taxes and Two Fees". The next step is that the Ministry of Commerce will work together with the Ministry of Commerce to implement policies such as VAT reduction and exemption for small-scale taxpayers, VAT credits, and "six taxes and two fees". As a next step, the Ministry of Commerce, together with relevant departments, will continue to implement the policies, actively promote the quality and expansion of the domestic service industry, promote the high-quality development of the domestic service industry, boost the consumption of domestic services, and better meet the people's needs for services for a better life.
english_summary: The Ministry of Commerce and the Development and Reform Commission recently issued the Work Points for Promoting the Quality and Expansion of the Domestic Service Industry in 2023, which outlines 25 specific measures in six areas to promote the development of the domestic service industry. The measures include improving the professionalism of practitioners, strengthening government supervision and industry self-regulation, building a supply and demand docking platform, actively promoting home economics into the community, raising the level of protection for practitioners, and implementing policies to help enterprises alleviate their difficulties. The goal is to promote the high-quality development of the domestic service industry, boost the consumption of domestic services, and better meet the people's needs for services for a better life.
