html: nan
title: 商务青年学习习近平新时代中国特色社会主义思想理论研究组举行2023年第1次集体学习
resulting_text: 3月30日，商务青年学习习近平新时代中国特色社会主义思想理论研究组举行2023年第1次集体学习，部党组成员、副部长、部青年工作领导小组组长盛秋平出席会议，为商务青年“春节回乡调研”活动获奖代表颁发荣誉证书，并为理论研究组作辅导报告。会上，7个理论研究小组分别汇报了工作进展情况，青年理论研究组指导组各位成员、各理论研究小组牵头单位负责同志以及青年干部代表约150人参加学习。 盛秋平围绕学习贯彻党的二十大精神，从深刻认识过去5年工作和新时代10年伟大变革的重大意义，深刻认识习近平新时代中国特色社会主义思想实现了马克思主义中国化时代化新的飞跃，深刻认识中国式现代化是强国建设、民族复兴的康庄大道，深刻认识全面建设社会主义现代化国家的目标任务，深刻认识全面从严治党永远在路上、党的自我革命永远在路上，深刻认识前进道路上的风险挑战等方面对党的二十大精神进行了全面系统宣讲，并从提高政治站位、完善工作机制、务求取得实效3个方面对商务青年开展党的创新理论学习研究提出明确要求。 会议强调，商务部各级党组织、团组织要把青年工作，特别是青年理论武装工作摆在重要位置来抓。各理论研究小组牵头单位的党组织书记，以及担任指导老师的司局级干部，要充分发挥领学促学和传帮带作用，结合自身工作实践，积极开展宣讲辅导、答疑解惑，为青年理论学习研究提供支持。相关职能部门要加强统筹协调，提供必要保障，定期组织开展交流分享，为理论学习研究营造浓厚氛围。理论研究组的青年干部要自觉成为习近平新时代中国特色社会主义思想的坚定信仰者和忠实实践者，始终聚焦党的创新理论最新成果，聚焦习近平总书记关于商务工作的重要论述，聚焦党中央在商务领域重大决策部署开展学习研究，努力形成具有较高质量的研究成果，为推动商务高质量发展、全面建设社会主义现代化国家贡献青春力量。
input_url: 20230406174242/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202304/20230403401514.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230515143236/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202304/20230403401514.shtml
date: 2023-04-07 00:00:00
translated_title: Business Youth Study Group on Theory of Xi Jinping's Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics in the New Era Holds 1st Collective Study in 2023
translated_content: On March 30, the Theoretical Research Group of Business Youth Studying Xi Jinping's Socialist Thought with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era held the first collective study in 2023. Sheng Qiuping, a member of the Party Group of the Ministry of Commerce, vice minister and head of the Ministry's Youth Work Leading Group, attended the meeting, awarded certificates of honor to the representatives of the winners of the "Spring Festival Research in the Hometowns" activity of the business youth and made a tutorial report for the theoretical research group. Theoretical research group made a tutorial report. At the meeting, seven theoretical research groups reported on the progress of their work, members of the Youth Theory Research Group Steering Group, responsible comrades of the leading units of the theoretical research groups and representatives of young cadres about 150 people attended the study. Sheng Qiuping focused on the study and implementation of the spirit of the 20th CPC National Congress, starting from the profound understanding of the great significance of the work of the past 5 years and the 10 years of great changes in the new era, the profound understanding that Xi Jinping's Socialist Thought with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era has achieved a new leap in the Chineseization of Marxism for the Modernization of the Times, the profound understanding that the Chinese style of modernization is the road of the construction of a strong country and the revival of the nation, the profound understanding of the goal and task of comprehensively constructing a modernized socialist country, and the profound understanding of the goal of comprehensively building a modern socialist country. Tasks, a profound understanding of the comprehensive and strict governance of the Party is always on the road, the Party's self-revolution is always on the road, a profound understanding of the risks and challenges on the road ahead and other aspects of the spirit of the twentieth CPC National Congress was a comprehensive and systematic propaganda, and to raise the political position, improve the working mechanism, and strive to achieve results in three aspects of the business of young people to carry out the Party's innovative theories and research to put forward clear requirements. The meeting emphasized that all levels of party organizations and league organizations of the Ministry of Commerce should put the work of youth, especially the theoretical armament of youth, in an important position to grasp. The secretary of the party organization of the leading unit of each theoretical research group, as well as the instructor of the department and bureau-level cadres, should give full play to the role of leading and promoting learning and passing on the role of their own work practice, actively carry out lectures and tutorials, answering questions and solving puzzles, and providing support for the theoretical study of young people. The relevant functional departments should strengthen the coordination, provide the necessary protection, organize regular exchanges and sharing, and create a strong atmosphere for theoretical study and research. The young cadres of the Theory Study Group should consciously become firm believers and faithful practitioners of Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era, always focus on the latest achievements of the Party's innovative theories, on the important expositions of General Secretary Xi Jinping on business work, and on the major decisions and deployments of the CPC Central Committee in the field of commerce to carry out study and research, and endeavor to form high-quality research results, and contribute to the promotion of the high-quality development of commerce, Contribute to the development of high-quality commerce and the comprehensive construction of a modernized socialist country.
english_summary: On March 30, the Theoretical Research Group of Business Youth Studying Xi Jinping's Socialist Thought with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era held the first collective study in 2023.
