html: nan
title: 商务部办公厅关于组织开展汽车促消费活动的通知
resulting_text: 商务部办公厅关于组织开展 汽车促消费 活动的通知 商办消费函〔2023〕367号 各省、自治区、直辖市及计划单列市、新疆生产建设兵团商务主管部门，中国汽车流通协会： 为深入贯彻落实党中央、国务院有关决策部署，进一步稳定和扩大汽车消费，根据“2023消费提振年”活动安排，商务部将组织开展汽车促消费活动。现将有关事项通知如下： 一、活动主题 全民乐享 全民盛惠 二、活动时间 2023年6月至12月 三、组织方式 结合“2023消费提振年”工作安排，统筹开展“百城联动”汽车节和“千县万镇”新能源汽车消费季活动。充分发挥地方、企业、行业协会作用，顺应城乡居民多样化购车需求，打通全链条、贯通全渠道、联通线上线下，组织全国百余城市协调联动，推动千余县（区）竞相参与，带动万余镇（乡）共享盛惠，营造良好氛围，促进汽车消费，惠及广大人民群众。 四、活动安排 （一） “ 百城 联动”汽车节。 1.建立“百城联动”重点活动清单。 各地统筹部署汽车促消费活动，择优推荐3-5个“百城联动”候选城市及其重点汽车促消费活动安排。商务部将选取特色鲜明、优势互补的约100个城市，形成“百城联动”重点活动清单。 2.聚焦全链条促进汽车消费。 各地要充分发挥百座城市带动作用，聚焦新车销售、二手车交易、报废更新、以旧换“新”（新能源汽车）、汽车后市场等内容，因地制宜打造系列汽车展销活动，持续“拉动增量、盘活存量、带动关联”，全链条全过程促进汽车消费。 3.强化购车优惠政策支持。 加强活动经费、场地等保障，协调推动地方、企业等出台支持汽车消费的针对性政策举措，充分发挥地方财政资金作用，鼓励金融机构出台汽车信贷金融支持措施。 （二）“千县万镇”新能源汽车消费季。 1.举办消费季系列活动。 商务部将于近期组织“千县万镇”新能源汽车消费季活动启动仪式，并指导各地在全国千余个县（区）、万余个镇（乡）开展新能源汽车“大篷车”进农村等形式多样的新能源汽车促消费活动，掀起覆盖县乡、亮点纷呈的促进新能源汽车消费热潮。 2.推动适销对路 车型下乡。 鼓励企业针对农村地区特点，推动性价比高、实用性强的新能源载货微面、微卡、轻卡等车型下乡，进一步丰富农村新能源汽车产品供应。 3.推动售后服务网络下沉。 引导企业进一步下沉销售维修服务渠道，加强新能源汽车流动维修站、农村维修点等建设和农村维保技术人员培训，不断完善农村地区新能源汽车售后维修服务网络。 4 .推动完善农村充电基础设施。 积极协调推动完善农村地区充电基础设施体系，依托县乡商业网点、企事业单位等场所，合理推进农村集中式公共充电桩场站建设。积极协调有关部门做好农村充电桩建设用地、电网支撑等保障工作。 五、有关要求 （一）强化组织保障。 各地要高度重视，加强组织领导，强化统筹协调，压紧压实责任，积极部署推进各项工作，确保落地见效。中国汽车流通协会要组织相关汽车企业积极参与，推动出台购车优惠举措。建立健全工作联系机制，各省级商务主管部门要明确活动联络员。 （二） 加强宣传普及。 各地要充分运用各类媒体、各方力量，多渠道、多层次做好活动新闻宣传工作。广泛开展专家解读、厂商推荐、试乘试驾等宣介活动，普及新能源汽车知识，提高消费者认可度。 （三） 维护公平竞争 。 各地要在公平、公正、公开的基础上开展汽车展销和新能源汽车下乡活动。对于拟出台的补贴等支持政策，各地商务主管部门要积极配合有关部门，做好公平竞争审查，确保相关政策措施对所有符合政策导向的企业普遍适用。 （四） 做好总结推广 。 各地要认真总结活动情况，梳理工作亮点和经验做法，分别于10月初及活动结束后，反馈工作成效。 商务部办公厅 2023年6月8日
input_url: 20230609014544/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkgztz/202306/20230603415295.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230608094723/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkgztz/202306/20230603415295.shtml
date: 2023-06-09 00:00:00
translated_title: Notice of the General Office of the Ministry of Commerce on the Organization of Automobile Consumption Promotion Activities
translated_content: General Office of the Ministry of Commerce on the organization of activities to promote consumption of automobiles Notice Business Office Consumption Letter [2023] No. 367 Provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the Central Government and municipalities with plans, Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps, the competent departments in charge of commerce, China Automobile Circulation Association: In order to thoroughly implement the relevant decision-making and deployment of the CPC Central Committee and the State Council, and to further stabilize and expand the consumption of automobiles, in accordance with the " In order to further implement the CPC Central Committee and State Council's decision-making and deployment to further stabilize and expand automobile consumption, according to the "2023 Consumption Enhancement Year" activities, the Ministry of Commerce will organize and carry out activities to promote automobile consumption. The Ministry of Commerce will organize and carry out automobile consumption promotion activities according to the arrangement of "2023 Year of Consumption Boosting". The relevant matters are hereby notified as follows: I. Theme of the activities: All people enjoy the benefits for all people II. Coordinate the activities of "Hundred Cities Linkage" Auto Festival and "Thousands of Counties and Ten Thousand Towns" New Energy Vehicle Consumption Season. Give full play to the role of localities, enterprises and industry associations, respond to the diversified needs of urban and rural residents to purchase cars, open up the whole chain, through all channels, online and offline, and organize the coordination of more than a hundred cities across the country to promote the participation of more than 1,000 counties (districts), and more than 10,000 townships (townships) to share the benefits and create a good atmosphere to promote automobile consumption, benefiting the masses of the people. Fourth, the arrangement of activities (a) "Hundred Cities Linkage" Auto Festival. 1. Establish a list of key activities for the "Hundred Cities Linkage". Each region to coordinate the deployment of automobile consumption promotion activities, recommend 3-5 "100 cities linkage" candidate cities and their key automobile consumption promotion activities. The Ministry of Commerce will select about 100 cities with distinctive features and complementary advantages to form a list of key activities for the "100 cities linkage". 2. Focus on the whole chain to promote automobile consumption. Localities should give full play to the leading role of the 100 cities, focusing on new car sales, second-hand car trading, scrapping and renewal, old-for-new (new energy vehicles), automotive aftermarket, etc., to create a series of automotive exhibition and marketing activities according to local conditions, and continue to "pull the increment, revitalize the stock, drive the associated", the whole chain, the whole chain, the whole chain of activities. "The whole chain and process of automobile consumption will be promoted. 3. Strengthen preferential policy support for car purchase. Strengthen the activities of funds, venues and other security, coordination and promotion of local, corporate and other targeted policy initiatives to support automotive consumption, give full play to the role of local financial funds, and encourage financial institutions to introduce automotive credit and financial support measures. (ii) "Thousands of Counties and Ten Thousand Towns" New Energy Vehicle Consumption Season. 1. Organize a series of activities for the consumption season. The Ministry of Commerce will organize the launching ceremony of the "Thousands of Counties and Ten Thousand Towns" New Energy Vehicle Consumption Season in the near future, and guide the localities to carry out various forms of new energy vehicle consumption promotion activities, such as new energy vehicle "caravans" into rural areas, covering counties and townships, and encouraging financial institutions to introduce credit and financial support measures. It has also guided local governments to carry out various forms of new energy vehicle consumption promotion activities such as "caravans" into rural areas in more than 1,000 counties (districts) and more than 10,000 towns (townships) across the country, and has set off a new energy vehicle consumption promotion campaign covering counties and townships. 2. Promoting marketable models to the countryside. Encourage enterprises to promote cost-effective and practical new energy vehicle models such as microfacets, micro trucks and light trucks to the countryside in view of the characteristics of rural areas, so as to further enrich the supply of new energy automobile products in rural areas. 3. Promote the sinking of after-sales service networks. Guide enterprises to further sink sales and maintenance service channels, strengthen the construction of mobile maintenance stations for new energy vehicles, rural maintenance points and the training of rural maintenance technicians, and continuously improve the after-sales maintenance service network for new energy vehicles in rural areas. 4 . Promote the improvement of rural charging infrastructure. Actively coordinate and promote the improvement of the charging infrastructure system in rural areas, relying on the county and township commercial outlets, enterprises and institutions, and other places, and reasonably promote the construction of centralized public charging pile stations in rural areas. Actively coordinate with relevant departments to do a good job in rural charging pile construction land, grid support and other security work. V. Requirements (a) strengthen organizational security. Each place should attach great importance to strengthening organizational leadership, strengthen coordination, tighten the responsibility, actively deployed to promote the work, to ensure the effectiveness of the landing. China Automobile Circulation Association should organize relevant automobile enterprises to actively participate in promoting the introduction of preferential initiatives for car purchases. Establish and improve the working contact mechanism, the provincial departments in charge of commerce should be clear activities liaison officer. (ii) Strengthen publicity and popularization. Localities should make full use of all kinds of media, the power of all parties, multi-channel, multi-level activities to do a good job of news and publicity. Widely carried out expert interpretation, manufacturers recommended, test drive and other promotional activities to popularize the knowledge of new energy vehicles, improve consumer acceptance. (C) Maintaining fair competition. Localities should carry out automobile exhibition and sales and new energy vehicles to the countryside activities on a fair, just and open basis. For the proposed subsidies and other support policies, the competent business departments around the world to actively cooperate with the relevant departments, do a good job of fair competition review, to ensure that the relevant policies and measures for all enterprises in line with the policy guidance generally applicable. (D) Do a good job summarizing and promoting . Each region should seriously summarize the activities, sort out the work highlights and experience and practices, respectively, in early October and after the end of the activities, feedback on the effectiveness of the work. General Office of the Ministry of Commerce June 8, 2023
english_summary: The General Office of the Ministry of Commerce is organizing automobile consumption promotion activities to stabilize and expand automobile consumption according to the "2023 Consumption Enhancement Year" activities. The "Hundred Cities Linkage" Auto Festival and "Thousands of Counties and Ten Thousand Towns" New Energy Vehicle Consumption Season will be coordinated to promote the whole chain of automobile consumption. Preferential policies will be provided for car purchase, and the launching ceremony of the "Thousands of Counties and Ten Thousand Towns" New Energy Vehicle Consumption Season will be organized. The provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the Central Government and municipalities with plans, Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps, the competent departments in charge of commerce, and China Automobile Circulation Association are invited to actively participate in the promotion of the automobile consumption promotion activities.
