html: nan
title: 商务部办公厅关于组织开展“2023全国一刻钟便民生活节”活动的通知
resulting_text: 为深入贯彻党的二十大和中央经济工作会议精神，推动商务部等13部门《全面推进城市一刻钟便民生活圈建设三年行动计划(2023-2025)》落实落细，激发便民生活圈新动能，进一步便利社区居民生活，商务部将组织开展“2023全国一刻钟便民生活节”活动。现将有关事项通知如下： 一、活动时间 2023年11月1日-12月31日 二、活动口号 百城千圈联动  便利美好生活 三、活动安排 按照“政府搭台、企业唱戏、多方联动、居民受益”方式，动员便民生活圈试点地区积极行动起来，充分利用现有便民服务政策，广泛调动各类主体参与，结合老字号、汽车、家电、家居、餐饮、再生资源回收等重点工作部署，自主确定活动内容和举办时间，因地制宜开展社区邻里节、购物节、美食节、团购节等形式多样的便民服务主题活动，通过“百城千圈万企”联动，丰富供给、创新场景、提升体 验，进一步便利居民生活，营造商居和谐的良好氛围，切实增强社区居民获得感、幸福感、满足感。 （一） 推动品质商品进社区。 鼓励聚焦老字号、国潮商品、进口商品、文创产品等，在社区开展巡回展、嘉年华、文化周等形式多样的展示展销活动。鼓励按照节气时令、文化传统、时尚潮流等推出贴近居民生活需要的新产品新服务。支持相关经营主体在社区超市、本地生活平台、便民生活圈智慧服务平台等设立特色商品专柜、专区。 （二） 推动绿色智能家电进社区。 鼓励在社区举办家电促销活动，通过政府支持、企业促销等方式，推进绿色智能家电以旧换新。鼓励家电生产、流通企业和电商平台，下沉社区搭建体验场景，设立绿色智能家电展示区、家电生活馆、实景体验区等。积极培育家电售后服务领跑企业，引导家电生产、销售、售后服务企业在社区设立便民服务点，推动售后服务进社区。开展公益宣传，鼓励相关协会和企业通过发放资料、播放视频、组织宣讲等方式，传播绿色、智能、安全消费理念。 （三） 推动家居焕新进社区。 结合“全国家居焕新消费季”活动，鼓励家居卖场、家居产品和家装企业、电商平台，在社区组织开展优惠促销活动，进行家居产品和旧房装修、局部改造和适老化改造样板间展示，推出多样化产品和服务套餐，拓展家居产品清洁、维修、保养等配套服务。鼓励有条件的街道和社区为企业开展家居产品和服务推广活动，以及居民装修提供便利。 （四） 推动餐饮服务进社区。 鼓励结合“2023中华美食荟”活动，发放社区餐饮消费券、优惠券，开展美食节、美食汇、美食大赛等各具特色的体验活动和老年助餐服务，展示特色餐饮品牌，弘扬中华餐饮文化。 （五） 推动汽车展销进社区。 鼓励在有条件的社区开展汽车展示展销、体验试驾等活动，宣传购车优惠政策，加强活动经费、场地等保障，让居民放心购买、安心使用、出行便利。 （六） 推动再生资源回收进社区。 健全废旧家电家具等再生资源回收体系，鼓励在社区设置废旧家电家具等临时存放点，方便居民装修、搬家。鼓励专业回收服务进社区，上门回收废旧家电家具。鼓励通过交易、寄卖等方式为居民处置闲置物品提供场所等便利条件。鼓励社区开展绿色回收与节能减排知识宣传活动，倡导居民规范投放废旧家电家具。 活动期间，商务部将与地方联合举办启动仪式，协调中国银联等单位开展“2023全国一刻钟便民生活节”系列主题活动、公布便民生活圈工作标识、发布便民生活圈动态监测报告和小修小补便民地图，并组织地方便民生活圈服务联盟签约等。 四、组织保障 （一）加强组织筹备。 各地商务主管部门要高度重视，认真筹划部署，与商务部前期举办的系列活动相衔接，整合政策资源、市场资源，加强动员，抓好分工落实。为保障活动顺利开展，请明确该活动省级商务主管部门总负责人、牵头处室负责人和联络员(见附件1)。前三批全国便民生活圈试点地区和省级试点地区要积极行动，组织开展形式多样的便民服务活动。活动期间，要加强市场秩序、食品安全、环境卫生管理等，确保活动安全有序。 （二）调动各方参与。 各地商务主管部门要积极动员有关行业协会、相关企业，以及电商平台、支付平台、中国银联及金融机构等广泛参与，引导推出各具特色的优惠活动。要充分利用电视、报刊、网络及各类新媒体，全渠道全方位开展宣传报道，打造活动热点亮点，倡导绿色、健康生活理念，杜绝浪费，营造放心、舒心、暖心的生活环境。 （三）做好成效总结。 各地商务主管部门要持续跟进活动，加强经验总结，包括但不限于开展情况、政策措施、特色亮点、典型案例、意见建议等，形成数据详实、内容丰富的活动总结报告，按时报送进展成效(见附件2)。相关总结报告请于2024年1月5日前报商务部（流通发展司），我们将宣传推广各地优秀经验和案例。 联系电话：010-85093773 85093780  85093794 传    真：010-85093767 邮    箱：mengxiang@mofcom.gov.cn 附件：1.全国一刻钟便民生活节联系人信息表 2.全国一刻钟便民生活节活动进度监测汇总表 商务部办公厅 2023年10月23日 附表1.docx 附表2.docx
input_url: 20231027204825/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkgztz/202310/20231003449527.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20231216031152/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkgztz/202310/20231003449527.shtml
date: 2023-10-28 00:00:00
translated_title: Notice of the General Office of the Ministry of Commerce on the Organization of the "2023 National Quarter Hour Convenient Life Festival" Activities
translated_content: In order to deeply implement the spirit of the 20th CPC National Congress and the Central Economic Work Conference, promote the implementation of the "Three-Year Action Plan to Comprehensively Promote the Construction of Quarter-hour Convenient Living Area in Cities (2023-2025)" by the Ministry of Commerce and other 13 departments, stimulate the new momentum of convenient living area, and further facilitate the lives of community residents, the Ministry of Commerce will organize and carry out the "National Quarter-Hour Convenient Living Festival 2023" activity. The Ministry of Commerce will organize and carry out the "2023 National One-Minute Convenient Life Festival". The Ministry of Commerce will organize the "2023 National Quarter Hour Convenient Life Festival". The relevant matters are hereby notified as follows: I. Activity time November 1, 2023 - December 31, 2023 II. Activity slogan Hundreds of Cities and Thousands of Circles to Facilitate a Better Life III. Existing convenient service policies, widely mobilize the participation of various types of subjects, combined with the deployment of key work of the old, automobile, home appliances, household, catering, recycling and other key work, to independently determine the content of the activities and the time to hold them, and carry out a variety of forms of convenient service themed activities such as Community Neighborhood Festival, Shopping Festival, Gourmet Festival, and Group Purchase Festival, etc., in accordance with local conditions, and enrich the supply of services through the "Hundred Cities, Thousand Circles, and Ten Thousand Enterprises Through the "100 cities, 1,000 circles and 10,000 enterprises" linkage, we have enriched supply, innovated scenarios and enhanced experience, further facilitated the lives of residents, created a favorable atmosphere of harmony between business and the community, and effectively strengthened the sense of acquisition, happiness and satisfaction of community residents. (i) Promoting quality goods into the community. Encourage the focus on long-established brands, national trendy commodities, imported commodities, cultural and creative products, etc., and carry out traveling exhibitions, carnivals, cultural weeks and other forms of exhibition and marketing activities in the community. Encourage the introduction of new products and services that are close to the needs of residents' lives in accordance with the seasons, cultural traditions and fashion trends. Support the relevant business entities in the community supermarkets, local life platforms, convenient life circle intelligent service platforms, such as the establishment of specialty commodities counters, special areas. (ii) Promote green and smart home appliances into the community. Encourage home appliance promotional activities in the community, through government support, business promotions, etc., to promote the green smart home appliances for the old and new. Encourage home appliance production, distribution enterprises and e-commerce platforms to sink into the community to build experience scenes, and set up green and smart home appliance display zones, home appliance life halls, and real-life experience zones. Actively cultivate leading home appliance after-sales service enterprises, guide home appliance production, sales and after-sales service enterprises to set up convenient service points in the community, and promote after-sales service into the community. Carry out public welfare propaganda, encourage relevant associations and enterprises to disseminate the concept of green, intelligent and safe consumption through the distribution of information, broadcasting videos, organizing lectures and other means. (C) promote home renewal into the community. Combined with the "National Home Renewal Consumption Season" activities, encourage home furnishing stores, home products and home furnishing enterprises, e-commerce platforms, in the community to organize preferential promotional activities, home furnishing products and old room renovation, local renovation and aging transformation model room display, the introduction of diversified products and service packages, expanding the home furnishing products cleaning, repair, maintenance and other supporting services. Encourage streets and communities in a position to do so to facilitate the promotion of household products and services by enterprises, as well as the renovation of residents. (d) Promote catering services in the community. Encourage the combination of the "2023 Chinese Food Aloe" activities, the issuance of community catering consumption coupons, coupons, food festivals, food fairs, food competitions, and other distinctive experience activities and senior meal services, to showcase the special catering brands, and promote the Chinese catering culture. (v) Promoting automobile exhibitions and sales in communities. Encourage the conditions in the community to carry out automobile exhibition and sales, experience test drive and other activities, publicize the preferential policies for car purchases, strengthen the activities of funding, venues and other security, so that residents can rest assured that the purchase, peace of mind, the use of travel convenience. (vi) Promoting the recycling of renewable resources into the community. Improve the recycling system of waste household appliances and furniture and other renewable resources, and encourage the setting up of temporary storage points for waste household appliances and furniture in the community, so as to facilitate residents' renovation and moving. Encourage professional recycling services into the community, door-to-door recycling of waste home appliances and furniture. Encourage the provision of venues and other facilities for residents to dispose of unused items through trading and consignment. Encourage the community to carry out green recycling and energy saving and emission reduction knowledge publicity activities, and advocate residents to standardize the placement of waste household appliances and furniture. During the campaign period, the Ministry of Commerce will jointly hold a launching ceremony with localities, coordinate with China UnionPay and other units to carry out a series of thematic activities for the "2023 National Quarter-hour Convenient Living Festival", announce the work logo of the convenient living area, release the dynamic monitoring report of the convenient living area and the map of the convenient living area for small repairs and minor fixes, and organize the signing of the local convenient living area service alliance, among others. etc. (I) Strengthen the organization and preparation. The local business departments should attach great importance to the serious planning and deployment, and the Ministry of Commerce held a series of activities in conjunction with the Ministry of Commerce, the integration of policy resources, market resources, to strengthen the mobilization of the implementation of the division of labor. In order to ensure the smooth implementation of the activities, please specify the general person-in-charge, the head of the lead office and the liaison officer of the provincial commerce department of the activity (see Annex 1). The first three batches of national convenient living circle pilot areas and provincial pilot areas should take active action to organize and carry out various forms of convenient service activities. During the activities, it is necessary to strengthen market order, food safety, environmental health management, etc., to ensure that the activities are safe and orderly. (B) mobilize the participation of all parties. Local business departments should actively mobilize the relevant industry associations, relevant enterprises, as well as e-commerce platforms, payment platforms, China UnionPay and financial institutions to participate extensively, and guide the launch of the distinctive preferential activities. To make full use of television, newspapers and magazines, the network and various types of new media, all channels to carry out all-round publicity and reporting, to create hot spots and highlights of the activities, to advocate the concept of green and healthy living, to eliminate waste, and to create peace of mind, comfort and warmth of the living environment. (C) do a good job summarizing the results. The local business authorities should continue to follow up the activities, strengthen the summary of experience, including but not limited to the implementation of the situation, policies and measures, characteristics and highlights, typical cases, opinions and suggestions, etc., to form a summary report of the activities with detailed data and rich content, and report the progress and effectiveness on time (see Annex 2). The relevant summary report should be submitted to the Ministry of Commerce (Department of Circulation Development) before January 5, 2024, and we will publicize and promote the excellent experience and cases around. Tel: 010-85093773 85093780 85093794 Fax: 010-85093767 E-mail: mengxiang@mofcom.gov.cn Annexes: 1. National Quarter-hour Convenient Life Festival Contact Information Sheet 2. National Quarter-hour Convenient Life Festival Activity Progress Monitoring Summary Sheet General Office of the Ministry of Commerce October 2023 23 October 2023 Attachment 1.docx Attachment 2.docx
english_summary: The General Office of the Ministry of Commerce has announced the organization of the "2023 National Quarter Hour Convenient Life Festival" to promote the construction of quarter-hour convenient living areas in cities and improve the quality of life for community residents. The festival will run from November 1, 2023, to December 31, 2023, and the slogan is "Hundreds of Cities and Thousands of Circles to Facilitate a Better Life." The festival will include a variety of convenient service-themed activities such as community neighborhood festivals, shopping festivals, gourmet festivals, and group purchase festivals. The Ministry of Commerce will also organize the "2023 National One-Minute Convenient Life Festival." During the festival, local business departments are encouraged to mobilize relevant industry associations, enterprises, and e-commerce platforms to participate and launch distinctive preferential activities.
