html: nan
title: 商务部办公厅 发展改革委办公厅 工业和信息化部办公厅 市场监管总局办公厅关于做好2023年促进绿色智能家电消费工作的通知
resulting_text: 各省、自治区、直辖市及计划单列市、新疆生产建设兵团商务、发展改革、工业和信息化、市场监管主管部门： 为深入贯彻党中央、国务院决策部署，把恢复和扩大消费摆在优先位置，落实《商务部等13部门关于促进绿色智能家电消费若干措施的通知》（商流通发〔2022〕107号），进一步做好2023年促进绿色智能家电消费相关工作，现就有关事项通知如下： 一、统筹组织绿色智能家电消费促进活动 结合商务部“2023消费提振年”各个消费场景设计，统筹线上线下消费渠道，组织举办家电节、购物节、网购节等活动，营造绿色智能家电消费浓厚氛围。顺应数字家庭发展趋势，探索家电、家居一体化融合消费。支持家电企业围绕“家场景”，在步行街、商圈、一刻钟便民生活圈开设绿色智能家电体验店，鼓励开展新店首秀新品首发等活动，不断提升消费体验。促进绿色智能家电消费，满足消费者多元化消费需求。加大绿色智能家电相关知识宣传力度，传播绿色、智能、健康的家电消费理念。请各地商务主管部门于6月11日前报送《2023年家电消费促进活动安排表》（见附件1）。 二、深入开展家电以旧换新 制定完善家电以旧换新工作方案，建立健全保障家电企业公平参与的工作机制。鼓励有条件的地方通过组织生产企业、电商平台、实体商业、回收企业建立对接机制、搭建协作平台、明确换新流程等方式，提升废旧家电交售和补贴领取便利性，促进绿色智能家电升级换新消费。积极推进绿色家电、智能家电认证，引导家电企业进一步丰富绿色智能家电产品供给。大力推广通过认证的绿色智能家电，引导消费者优先选购2级及以上能效（水效）冰箱、洗衣机、空调、热水器、净水器、空气净化器等家电产品。 三、扎实推进绿色智能家电下乡 支持家电生产企业针对农村市场特点和消费需求，加快研发推广性价比高、操作简便、质量优良的热水器、油烟机、微波炉等绿色智能家电产品。强化家电营销网络建设，引导家电生产、销售、维修、回收企业及电商平台下沉渠道，在县乡两级设立直营店、体验店、服务网点、回收站点、前置仓，推动绿色智能家电下乡，进一步挖掘农村市场消费潜力。 四、实施家电售后服务提升行动 各相关部门加强协作联动，组织引导家电生产、销售、维修企业积极参与家电售后服务提升行动，加快发掘、培育一批家电售后服务优秀企业，着力提升家电售后服务专业化、标准化、便利化水平。引导家电售后服务进社区、进商圈、进平台，扩大便民服务点覆盖范围，打造售后服务平台，针对不同消费需求，提供在线预约上门等个性化服务，营造优质便利的售后服务环境。各地商务主管部门会同工业和信息化、市场监管部门鼓励优秀企业参与申报“家电售后服务领跑企业”，组织企业更新完善申报材料并报送经验做法和典型案例，于6月15日前反馈《家电售后服务领跑企业推荐表》（见附件2）。 五、加强废旧家电回收工作 积极推进废旧物资循环利用体系建设，推动回收主体多元化、规模化发展，通过“互联网+回收”等模式，加速推进线上交废与线下回收有机结合，提升废旧家电回收能力和规范化水平。推动更多家电生产企业开展回收目标责任制行动，促进废旧家电回收利用转型升级。指导家电销售、售后服务企业利用销售、服务网络，结合家电以旧换新和绿色智能家电下乡，提供废旧家电便民回收服务。针对城市、农村市场不同特点，依托废旧物资回收网络开展废旧家电回收，加强废旧家电规范回收公益宣传。 各地商务、发展改革、工业和信息化、市场监管主管部门要高度重视，密切配合，协同抓好工作落实。商务主管部门要会同相关部门全面总结地方经验和典型做法，及时反映工作中存在的困难和问题，于每季度末报送阶段性工作情况，每季度结束后15日内报送《2023年绿色智能家电下乡和家电以旧换新季报表》（见附件3）。 联系电话：商务部流通业发展司 010-85093815/85093771 传真：010-85093749 邮箱：pifaye@mofcom.gov.cn 附件：1.2023年家电消费促进活动安排表 2.家电售后服务领跑企业推荐表 3.2023年绿色智能家电下乡和家电以旧换新季报表 商务部办公厅 发展改革委办公厅 工业和信息化部办公厅 市场监管总局办公厅 2023年5月22日
input_url: 20230609014544/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkgztz/202306/20230603415380.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230609053628/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkgztz/202306/20230603415380.shtml
date: 2023-06-09 00:00:00
translated_title: General Office of the Ministry of Commerce General Office of the Development and Reform Commission General Office of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology General Office of the General Administration of Market Supervision Notice on Promoting the Consumption of Green and Smart Home Appliances in 2023
translated_content: Provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the central government and municipalities with separate plans, Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps business, development and reform, industry and information technology, market supervision departments: In order to thoroughly implement the CPC Central Committee, the State Council decision-making and deployment of the restoration and expansion of consumption in the priority position, the implementation of the "Ministry of Commerce and other 13 departments on the promotion of green intelligent home appliances consumption of a number of measures of the notice" (Business Circulation issued [2022] 107), and further do a good job in 2023 to promote the work related to the green intelligent home appliances. Further do a good job in 2023 to promote the consumption of green smart home appliances related work, is now on the relevant matters as follows: First, the overall organization of green smart home appliance consumption promotion activities Combined with the Ministry of Commerce "2023 Consumption Boosting Year" consumption scenarios designed to coordinate the online and offline channels of consumption, the organization of home appliance festivals, shopping festivals, online shopping festival activities to create a strong sense of green and smart home appliance consumption, to create a strong sense of consumption. Organize and hold home appliance festivals, shopping festivals, online shopping festivals and other activities to create a strong atmosphere for green and smart home appliance consumption. In line with the development trend of digital home, explore the integrated consumption of home appliances and home furnishings. Support home appliance enterprises to open green and smart home appliance experience stores in pedestrian streets, shopping districts, and quarter-hour convenient living areas around the "home scene", and encourage the development of activities such as the debut of new products in new stores, so as to continuously improve the consumption experience. Promote the consumption of green and smart home appliances to meet the diversified consumption needs of consumers. Increase the publicity of knowledge related to green and smart home appliances, and disseminate the concept of green, smart and healthy consumption of home appliances. Please submit the "2023 Home Appliance Consumption Promotion Activity Arrangement Table" (see Annex 1) before June 11th. Second, in-depth development of home appliance trade-in program Develop and improve the work program of home appliance trade-in program, establish and improve the working mechanism to ensure the fair participation of home appliance enterprises. Encourage conditional localities to improve the convenience of the delivery and sale of used home appliances and the receipt of subsidies by organizing manufacturers, e-commerce platforms, brick-and-mortar businesses, and recycling enterprises to establish a docking mechanism, set up a collaborative platform, and clarify the process of replacement, so as to promote the consumption of upgraded green and smart home appliances for new ones. Actively promote the certification of green home appliances and smart home appliances, and guide home appliance enterprises to further enrich the supply of green and smart home appliance products. Vigorously promote certified green and smart home appliances, and guide consumers to prioritize the purchase of energy-efficient refrigerators, washing machines, air conditioners, water heaters, water purifiers, air purifiers and other home appliances with energy efficiency of level 2 and above (water efficiency). Third, solid promotion of green intelligent home appliances to the countryside Support for home appliance manufacturers to address the characteristics of the rural market and consumer demand, accelerate the research and development and promotion of cost-effective, easy-to-operate, high-quality water heaters, hoods, microwave ovens and other green intelligent home appliance products. Strengthen the construction of home appliance marketing network, guide the home appliance production, sales, maintenance, recycling enterprises and e-commerce platform to sink channels, set up directly-managed stores, experience stores, service outlets, recycling sites, front warehouses at the county and township levels, to promote the green and intelligent home appliances to the countryside, and to further tap into the potential of consumption in the rural market. Fourth, the implementation of home appliance after-sales service to enhance action All relevant departments to strengthen collaboration and linkage, organization and guidance of home appliance production, sales, maintenance enterprises to actively participate in home appliance after-sales service to enhance action to accelerate the discovery and cultivation of a number of excellent home appliance after-sales service enterprises, and strive to enhance the level of after-sales service of home appliances specialization, standardization and facilitation. Guiding the after-sales service of home appliances into the community, into the business circle and into the platform, expanding the coverage of convenient service points, creating an after-sales service platform, providing personalized services such as online reservation for door-to-door service in response to different consumer needs, and creating a high-quality and convenient after-sales service environment. Local business departments in charge, together with industry and information technology, market supervision departments to encourage outstanding enterprises to participate in the declaration of "home appliance after-sales service leader", the organization of enterprises to update and improve the declaration materials and submit experience and typical cases, in June 15 before the feedback of the "home appliance after-sales service leader in the enterprise recommendation form" (see Annex 2). V. Strengthening the recycling of waste electrical appliances Actively promote the construction of recycling system of waste materials, promote the diversification of recycling bodies, the development of large-scale, through the "Internet + recycling" and other modes, to accelerate the organic combination of online delivery of waste and offline recycling, enhance the recycling of waste electrical appliances and standardization of the level of capacity. Promote more home appliance manufacturers to carry out recycling target responsibility system action, and promote the transformation and upgrading of the recycling of used home appliances. Guiding home appliance sales and after-sales service enterprises to utilize their sales and service networks to provide convenient recycling services for used and end-of-life home appliances in combination with home appliance trade-in and green and smart home appliances going to the countryside. For the different characteristics of urban and rural markets, relying on waste materials recycling network to carry out recycling of used home appliances, and strengthen the standardized recycling of used home appliances public welfare propaganda. Business, development and reform, industry and information technology, market supervision authorities around the world should attach great importance to close cooperation, and work together to implement the work. The competent departments of commerce, together with the relevant departments, should fully summarize the local experience and typical practices, reflect the difficulties and problems in the work in a timely manner, and report the phased work at the end of each quarter, and submit the "Quarterly Report on Green and Smart Home Appliances to the Countryside and Home Appliances for Old and New Appliances in 2023" within 15 days after the end of each quarter (see Appendix 3). Tel: Department of Circulation Industry Development, Ministry of Commerce 010-85093815/85093771 Fax: 010-85093749 E-Mail: pifaye@mofcom.gov.cn Annexes: 1. Arrangement Table for Home Appliances Consumption Promotion Activities in 2023 2. Recommendation Table for Home Appliances After-sales Service Leading Enterprises 3. 2023 Quarterly Statement for Green and Smart Home Appliances to the Countryside and Home Appliances Quarterly Returns for Old and New Appliances General Office of the Ministry of Commerce General Office of the Development and Reform Commission General Office of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology General Office of the General Administration of Market Supervision May 22, 2023
english_summary: The General Offices of the Ministry of Commerce, the Development and Reform Commission, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, and the General Administration of Market Supervision have issued a notice calling for the promotion of green and smart home appliances in 2023 to boost consumption. The notice includes the establishment of a promotion activity arrangement table, the implementation of a home appliance trade-in program, the promotion of green and intelligent appliances to rural areas, the strengthening of home appliance after-sales service, and the recycling of waste electrical appliances.
