html: nan
title: 商务部等13部门关于促进家居消费若干措施的通知
resulting_text: 各省、自治区、直辖市人民政府，新疆生产建设兵团: 家居消费涵盖家电、家具、家纺、家装等多个领域，是居民消费的重要组成部分，是人民对美好生活需要的直接体现。为贯彻落实党中央、国务院决策部署，释放家居消费潜力，巩固消费恢复发展势头，增强消费对经济发展的基础性作用，经国务院同意，现将有关事项通知如下： 一、大力提升供给质量 （一）完善绿色供应链。 支持家居企业开展绿色制造，鼓励有条件的地区对绿色制造示范企业出台针对性政策措施，促进企业加大绿色家居产品研发力度。加强绿色家居产品质量和品牌建设。健全统一的绿色产品标准、认证、标识体系，拓展绿色家居产品认证范围。鼓励有条件的地区对居民购买绿色家电、绿色家具、绿色建材等绿色家居产品给予支持。支持家居卖场开展绿色商场创建，设置绿色产品销售专区。大力发展绿色家装、装配式装修。 （二）创新培育智能消费。 支持企业运用物联网、云计算、人工智能等技术，加快智能家电、智能安防、智能照明、智能睡眠、智能康养、智能影音娱乐等家居产品研发。发挥消费平台大数据作用，支持企业开展家居产品反向定制、个性化设计和柔性化生产。促进智能家居设备互联互通，建立健全标准体系，推动单品智能向全屋智能发展。开展数字家庭建设试点。 （三）提高家居适老化水平。 制定发布老年用品产品推广目录，加快制定家居产品适老化设计通用标准。支持企业加大适老化家电、家具、洗浴装置等家居产品研发力度。支持老年人家庭安装视频照护系统，配置血氧仪、血压计、血糖仪等家用健康监测设备。支持家居卖场、电商平台设立老年用品销售专区专柜。支持装修等领域经营主体拓展居家适老化改造业务。 二、积极创新消费场景 （四）推动业态模式创新发展。 支持家居企业加快数字化、智能化转型升级和线上线下融合发展，培育一批产业链供应链高效协同的家居行业领跑企业。鼓励企业打造线上家居服务平台，促进“互联网+家装”“互联网+二手家居”、家电家具租赁等新业态新模式健康有序发展。鼓励有条件的地区有序发展二手家居流通产业。支持家居卖场加强与上下游企业合作，构建“大家居”生态体系，为消费者提供一站式、一体化、全场景家居消费解决方案。支持家居卖场、购物中心等设置智能家居体验馆、品质家居生活馆等体验式消费场景，探索家居零售与文娱休闲、创意设计等多业态融合发展。 （五）支持旧房装修。 鼓励各地结合城镇老旧小区改造等工作，通过政府支持、企业促销等多种方式，支持居民开展旧房装修和局部升级改造。鼓励企业开展旧房翻新设计大赛，展示升级改造优秀案例，打造旧房装修和局部改造样板间，推出价格实惠的产品和服务套餐，满足多样化消费需求。 （六）开展促消费活动。 组织开展家居焕新活动，鼓励有条件的地区出台针对性政策措施，引导企业提高家居消费供给质量和水平，提供更多高品质、个性化、定制化家居产品，加大优惠力度，支持居民更换或新购绿色智能家居产品、开展旧房装修。支持各地和相关行业协会依托全国消费促进月、国际消费季等平台，组织开展家居消费季、家纺消费节、家装消费节等促消费活动。用好中国国际进口博览会、中国国际消费品博览会等展会平台，支持以市场化方式举办家居类专业展会，展示家居领域前沿技术和产品，扩大优质家居产品供给。 三、有效改善消费条件 （七） 发展 社区便民 服务 。 推进一刻钟便民生活圈建设，支持与家居消费密切相关的洗染店、维修点、再生资源回收点等进社区。鼓励有条件的居民小区利用闲置房屋设置家电家具临时存放场所，方便居民开展装修。鼓励家政企业和家电服务企业进社区，拓展家居清洁和家电维修、保养等业务。 （八） 完善废旧物资回收网络。 统筹现有资金渠道，加强对废旧物资循环利用体系建设重点项目的支持。推动在居民小区规范设置废旧家具、装修垃圾投放点，推广线上预约收运。完善废旧纺织品循环利用体系。鼓励回收企业与物业企业等单位建立长效合作机制，支持企业上门回收废旧家电、家具，为废旧物资回收车辆进小区提供便利。 （九）促进农村家居消费。 持续推进县域商业体系建设，引导家居企业、电商平台等下沉农村市场，优化县域流通网络和渠道，加大适销对路家居产品供应，提升售后服务水平。健全县乡村三级物流配送体系，发展集约化配送。深入开展绿色建材下乡活动，进一步扩大试点地区范围，有条件的地区应对绿色建材消费予以适当补贴或贷款贴息。鼓励有条件的地区开展家电家具家装下乡，因地制宜支持农村居民购买绿色智能家居产品、开展家庭装修。 四、着力优化消费环境 （十） 规范市场秩序。 健全家装标准规范，在家居行业深入实施企业标准“领跑者”制度。依法打击家居消费领域假冒伪劣、偷工减料、价格欺诈等行为。健全家居行业信用评价体系，推广诚信经营典型案例，鼓励行业协会等探索实施家居行业“黑名单”制度，引导市场主体诚信经营。引导家装企业加强从业人员培训，组织职工积极参加职业技能竞赛，提升服务质量。 （十一） 加强 政策支持 。 鼓励金融机构在依法合规、风险可控前提下，加强对家居消费的信贷支持，合理确定贷款利率和还款期限，优化审批流程，完善金融服务，推广线上即时办理。鼓励金融机构加强与家居生产企业、家居卖场、家装企业等合作，为经营商户和供应链上下游企业提供融资支持。支持符合条件的家居卖场等商业网点项目发行基础设施领域不动产投资信托基金（REITs）。继续支持城镇老旧小区居民提取住房公积金用于加装电梯等自住住房改造，政策支持范围扩大到本人及配偶双方父母自住住房加装电梯等改造。 各地要切实加强组织领导，结合本地区实际，制定具体实施方案，细化工作举措，总结推广典型经验，强化宣传引导，充分调动居委会、社区等基层组织积极性，进一步激发各类市场主体活力，增强居民消费意愿，释放家居消费潜力。商务主管部门要加强与相关部门协调联动，推动各项政策措施尽快落地见效。 商务部 国家 发展改革委 工业和信息化部 民政部 财政部 人力资源社会保障部 自然资源部 住房城乡建设部 农业农村部 中国 人民银行 市场监管总局 金融监管总局 中国证监会 2023 年 7 月 12 日
input_url: 20230718122021/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202307/20230703422259.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230718112348/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202307/20230703422259.shtml
date: 2023-07-18 00:00:00
translated_title: Notice of the Ministry of Commerce and 13 other departments on several measures to promote household consumption
translated_content: Provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the Central People's Government, the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps: home consumption covers home appliances, furniture, home textiles, home furnishings and other areas, is an important part of the residents' consumption, is a direct reflection of the people's need for a better life. To implement the CPC Central Committee, the State Council decision-making and deployment, release the potential of home consumption, consolidate consumption to restore the momentum of development, and enhance the fundamental role of consumption on economic development, agreed by the State Council, is hereby notified as follows: First, vigorously improve the quality of supply (a) improve the green supply chain. Support for home furnishing enterprises to carry out green manufacturing, encourage conditional areas of green manufacturing demonstration enterprises to introduce targeted policy measures to promote enterprises to increase green home furnishing product research and development efforts. Strengthen green home product quality and brand building. Improve the unified green product standards, certification and labeling system, and expand the scope of green home product certification. Encourage conditional areas for residents to buy green home appliances, green furniture, green building materials and other green home products to give support. Support home furnishing stores to carry out the creation of green shopping centers, set up green product sales area. Vigorously develop green home decoration, assembly decoration. (ii) Innovation and cultivation of intelligent consumption. Support enterprises to use the Internet of Things, cloud computing, artificial intelligence and other technologies to accelerate the development of smart home appliances, smart security, smart lighting, smart sleep, smart health, smart audio-visual entertainment and other home products. Give full play to the role of big data on consumption platforms, and support enterprises to carry out reverse customization, personalized design and flexible production of household products. Promote the interconnection and interoperability of smart home equipment, establish a sound standard system, and promote the development of single product intelligence to whole-house intelligence. Carry out digital home construction pilot. (iii) Improve the level of home aging. Develop and release a catalog for promoting products for the elderly, and accelerate the development of general standards for ageing-friendly design of household products. Support enterprises to increase the research and development of ageing-friendly home appliances, furniture, bathing devices and other household products. Supporting the installation of video care systems in the homes of the elderly, and configuring home health monitoring equipment such as oximeters, blood pressure monitors and blood glucose meters. Supporting home furnishing stores and e-commerce platforms to set up special counters for the sale of elderly products. Support the renovation and other areas of the main business to expand the aging home renovation business. Second, actively innovate consumer scenarios (d) to promote the innovative development of business models. Support home furnishing enterprises to accelerate digitalization, intelligent transformation and upgrading and online and offline integration and development, and cultivate a number of industrial chain supply chain efficient synergistic home furnishing industry leading enterprises. Encourage enterprises to build online home service platform, promote "Internet + home furnishing", "Internet + second-hand home", home appliances and furniture leasing and other new forms of new modes of healthy and orderly development. Encourage the orderly development of second-hand home furnishing circulation industry in areas with conditions. Support home furnishing stores to strengthen cooperation with upstream and downstream enterprises to build a "big home" ecosystem, providing consumers with one-stop, integrated, full-scene home consumption solutions. Support home furnishing stores, shopping centers, etc. to set up smart home experience hall, quality home life hall and other experiential consumption scenes, and explore the development of home furnishing retailing and recreation and leisure, creative design and other multi-industry fusion. (v) Support the renovation of old houses. Encourage localities to combine the transformation of old urban neighborhoods and other work, through government support, enterprise promotion and other ways to support residents to carry out renovation of old houses and local upgrading and transformation. Enterprises are encouraged to carry out design competitions for the renovation of old houses, display excellent cases of upgrading and remodeling, create model rooms for the renovation and partial remodeling of old houses, and introduce affordable products and service packages to meet diversified consumer demand. (vi) Carrying out activities to promote consumption. Organize home renovation activities, encourage conditional areas to introduce targeted policies and measures to guide enterprises to improve the quality and level of home consumption supply, to provide more high-quality, personalized, customized home products, and increase preferential treatment to support residents to replace or newly purchase green smart home products, carry out the renovation of old houses. Support local and relevant industry associations to rely on the National Consumption Promotion Month, the International Consumption Season and other platforms to organize and carry out home consumption season, home textile consumption festival, home furnishing consumption festival and other consumption promotion activities. Make good use of the China International Import Expo, China International Consumer Goods Expo and other exhibition platforms, support the market-oriented approach to home furnishing professional exhibitions, displaying home furnishing cutting-edge technology and products, expanding the supply of high-quality home furnishing products. Effectively improving consumption conditions (7) Developing convenient community services. Promote the construction of one-minute convenient living circle, and support closely related to household consumption of washing and dyeing stores, maintenance points, renewable resources recycling points, etc. into the community. Encourage conditional residential districts to make use of unused housing to set up temporary storage places for home appliances and furniture, so as to facilitate residents in carrying out renovation. Encourage housekeeping enterprises and home appliance service enterprises into the community to expand home cleaning and home appliance repair, maintenance and other businesses. (viii) Improve the recycling network of waste materials. Coordinate existing funding channels and strengthen support for key projects in the construction of a recycling system for waste materials. Promote the standardized setting up of drop-off points for waste furniture and decoration waste in residential districts, and promote online booking for collection and transportation. Improve the recycling system of waste textiles. Encourage recycling enterprises and property enterprises and other units to establish a long-term cooperation mechanism to support the enterprise door-to-door recycling of waste household appliances, furniture, waste materials recycling vehicles into the community to provide convenience. (IX) promote rural household consumption. Continuously promote the construction of the county business system, guiding home furnishing enterprises, e-commerce platforms and other sinking of the rural market, optimize the county circulation network and channels, increase the supply of marketable home furnishing products, and enhance the level of after-sales service. Improve the county and rural three-level logistics distribution system, the development of intensive distribution. In-depth development of green building materials to the countryside activities, and further expand the scope of the pilot area, the conditions of the region should be green building materials consumption to be appropriate subsidies or loan discounts. Encourage conditional areas to carry out home appliances, furniture and home furnishings to the countryside, according to local conditions to support rural residents to buy green smart home products, home improvement. Fourth, efforts to optimize the consumer environment (10) regulate the market order. Improve the home furnishing standards and norms, in-depth implementation of corporate standards in the home furnishing industry "frontrunner" system. Crack down on counterfeiting, jerry-building, price fraud and other behaviors in the field of home consumption in accordance with the law. Improve the home furnishing industry credit evaluation system, promote the integrity of typical cases, encourage industry associations to explore the implementation of the home furnishing industry "blacklist" system, to guide the integrity of market players. Guiding home furnishing enterprises to strengthen the training of employees, organizations and workers actively participate in vocational skills competitions to improve service quality. (xi) Strengthen policy support. Encourage financial institutions to strengthen credit support for home furnishing consumption under the premise of legal compliance and risk control, reasonably determine the loan interest rate and repayment period, optimize the approval process, improve financial services, and promote online instant processing. Encourage financial institutions to strengthen cooperation with home furnishing production enterprises, home furnishing stores, home furnishing enterprises, etc., to provide financing support for operating merchants and upstream and downstream enterprises in the supply chain. Support eligible home furnishing stores and other commercial network projects to issue real estate investment trusts (REITs) in the infrastructure sector. Continue to support residents of old urban neighborhoods to withdraw housing fund for the addition of elevators and other owner-occupied housing renovation, policy support for the expansion of the scope of my parents and both spouses to add elevators and other renovation of owner-occupied housing. Each region should effectively strengthen the organizational leadership, combined with the actual region, to develop specific implementation plans, refine the work initiatives, summarize and promote the typical experience, strengthen the publicity and guidance, and fully mobilize the neighborhood committees, communities and other grass-roots organizations, and further stimulate the vitality of all types of market players, enhance the residents' willingness to consume, and release the potential for home consumption. The competent business department should strengthen coordination and linkage with relevant departments to promote the implementation of various policy measures as soon as possible. Ministry of Commerce National Development and Reform Commission Ministry of Industry and Information Technology Ministry of Civil Affairs Ministry of Finance Ministry of Human Resources Ministry of Social Security Ministry of Natural Resources Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development People's Bank of China General Administration of Market Supervision General Administration of Financial Supervision China Securities Regulatory Commission July 12, 2023
english_summary: The notice is a joint effort by several departments, including the Ministry of Commerce, to promote household consumption in China. It covers various measures to improve the quality of supply, innovate consumer scenarios, support the renovation of old houses, and optimize the consumer environment. These include improving the green supply chain, promoting intelligent consumption, and developing convenient community services. The notice aims to encourage localities to support the consumption of green and smart home products, enhance the role of consumption in economic development, and release the potential of home consumption. The government expects to stimulate the vitality of all market players, increase the willingness of residents to consume, and release the potential for home consumption.
