html: nan
title: 商务部等14部门办公厅（室）关于公布内外贸一体化试点地区名单的通知
resulting_text: 商办建函〔2022〕318号 各省、自治区、直辖市及计划单列市、新疆生产建设兵团有关部门、机构： 为贯彻落实党中央、国务院关于推进内外贸一体化的决策部署，根据《商务部等14部门关于开展内外贸一体化试点的通知》（商建函〔2022〕114号），在地方自愿申报的基础上，经专家评审、向社会公示，商务部等14部门研究确定了内外贸一体化试点地区名单（见附件），现予以公布并就有关工作要求通知如下： 一、加强组织领导。 试点地区商务主管部门要牵头会同有关单位建立试点工作联系机制，加强组织协调，进一步完善试点工作方案，紧密围绕完善内外贸一体化体制机制、提高内外贸一体化发展能力、优化内外贸一体化发展环境确定试点目标、试点任务和职责分工，细化配套政策和工作措施，制定时间表、路线图，确保试点工作落到实处、取得实效。计划单列市可结合实际，单独制定试点工作方案并实施。 二、积极探索实践。 试点地区各部门要立足本地实际，创新工作思路，积极先行先试，勇于探索实践，扎实推进试点工作。要突出目标导向，聚焦若干重点产业，力争培育一批内外贸一体化经营企业，打造一批内外贸融合发展平台，形成一批具有国际竞争力、融合发展的产业集群，建立健全促进内外贸一体化发展体制机制。要突出问题导向，梳理解决一批市场主体在开展内外贸一体化经营中遇到的实际问题。要及时评估总结，形成一批可复制推广的经验和模式，为促进内外贸融合发展发挥示范带动作用。各地区要积极复制推广试点地区成功经验和模式，促进内外贸高效运行、融合发展。 三、及时总结报告。 试点地区在收到通知后一个月内向商务部报送完善后的试点工作方案及工作台账，每季度结束后7日内报送工作台账进展情况，按照要求报送年度试点工作总结，及时报告试点工作进展及成效、成功经验及典型案例、重大问题和建议等。 商务部等部门将加强对试点工作的指导支持，加大宣传力度，推动试点经验在全国复制推广，根据相关推进情况适时调整试点地区名单。 附件：内外贸一体化试点地区名单 商务部办公厅　发展改革委办公厅 教育部办公厅　工业和信息化部办公厅 财政部办公厅　交通运输部办公厅 农业农村部办公厅　人民银行办公厅 海关总署办公厅　税务总局办公厅 市场监管总局办公厅　银保监会办公厅 外汇局综合司　知识产权局办公室 2022年12月8日 附件 内外贸一体化试点地区名单 （按行政区划序列排序） 1.北京市 2.上海市 3.江苏省 4.浙江省（含宁波市） 5.福建省（含厦门市） 6.湖南省 7.广东省（含深圳市） 8.重庆市 9.新疆维吾尔自治区
input_url: 20230113054024/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkgztz/202301/20230103378565.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230111174105/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkgztz/202301/20230103378565.shtml
date: 2023-01-13 00:00:00
translated_title: Ministry of Commerce and other 14 departments of the General Office (Office) on the announcement of the list of pilot areas for the integration of domestic and foreign trade
translated_content: Business building letter [2022] No. 318 Provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the Central Government and municipalities with separate plans, Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps relevant departments and agencies: In order to implement the Party Central Committee and the State Council on the promotion of the integration of domestic and foreign trade decision-making and deployment, according to the "Ministry of Commerce and other 14 departments on the development of domestic and foreign trade integration of the pilot notification" (Business building letter [2022] No. 114), in the voluntary declaration of the local based on. After expert evaluation, publicity to the community, the Ministry of Commerce and other 14 departments to study the integration of domestic and foreign trade pilot region list (see annex), is hereby announced and notified on the relevant work requirements as follows: First, strengthen organizational leadership. Pilot areas in charge of business should take the lead in conjunction with the relevant units to establish a pilot contact mechanism, strengthen organizational coordination, further improve the pilot work program, closely focusing on the improvement of the institutional mechanism for the integration of domestic and foreign trade, improve the integration of domestic and foreign trade and the development of the ability to optimize the integration of domestic and foreign trade and the development of the environment to determine the pilot objectives, pilot tasks and division of responsibilities, refine the supporting policies and work measures, develop a timetable and roadmap to. Ensure that the pilot work is implemented and effective. Plan to single-listed cities can be combined with the actual situation, a separate pilot work program and implementation. Second, actively explore and practice. Pilot areas and departments should be based on local realities, innovative work ideas, and actively pilot, the courage to explore and practice, and solidly promote the pilot work. To highlight the goal-oriented, focusing on a number of key industries, and strive to cultivate a number of internal and external trade integration business enterprises, to create a number of internal and external trade integration and development platform, the formation of a number of international competitiveness, integration and development of industrial clusters, and the establishment of a sound system to promote the development of internal and external trade integration mechanism. It is necessary to highlight the problem-oriented, sort out and solve the practical problems encountered by a number of market players in carrying out the integrated operation of domestic and foreign trade. Timely assessment and summarization should be made to form a batch of replicable experiences and models, so as to play an exemplary and leading role in promoting the integrated development of domestic and foreign trade. All regions should actively replicate and popularize the successful experiences and models of the pilot regions, and promote the efficient operation and integrated development of domestic and foreign trade. Third, summarize the report in a timely manner. Pilot areas in the notice received within one month after the Ministry of Commerce to submit the improved pilot program and the work of the work of the account, the end of each quarter within 7 days of the work of the account of the progress of the report, in accordance with the requirements of the annual summary of the pilot work, and timely report on the pilot work of the progress and effectiveness of the success of the experience and typical cases, major issues and recommendations. The Ministry of Commerce and other departments will strengthen the guidance and support for the pilot work, increase publicity, promote the replication and popularization of the pilot experience across the country, and adjust the list of pilot regions in due course according to the relevant advancement. Annex: the list of pilot areas for integration of domestic and foreign trade General Office of the Ministry of Commerce General Office of the Development and Reform Commission General Office of the Ministry of Education General Office of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology General Office of the Ministry of Finance General Office of the Ministry of Transportation General Office of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs General Office of the People's Bank of China General Office of Customs General Office of the General Administration of Taxation General Office of the General Administration of Market Supervision General Office of the CBRC General Office of the Office of the Foreign Exchange Bureau of the Comprehensive Department Office of the Intellectual Property Office December 8, 2022 Annex List of Pilot Areas for Integration of Domestic and Foreign Trade (in order of administrative division) 1. Beijing 2. Shanghai 3. Jiangsu 4. Zhejiang Province (including Ningbo) 5. Fujian Province (including Xiamen) 6. Hunan 7. Guangdong Province (including Shenzhen) 8. Chongqing 9. Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region
english_summary: The Ministry of Commerce and other 14 departments have announced a list of pilot areas for the integration of domestic and foreign trade. The pilot regions include Beijing, Shanghai, Jiangsu, Zhejiang Province (including Ningbo), Fujian Province (including Xiamen), Hunan, Guangdong Province (including Shenzhen), Chongqing, Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, and other provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the Central Government and municipalities with separate plans. The pilot areas are tasked with strengthening organizational leadership, exploring innovative work ideas, and actively piloting the integration of domestic and foreign trade. They will also be required to submit regular reports on their progress and success and the Ministry of Commerce and other departments will provide guidance and support. The pilot areas are expected to play an exemplary and leading role in promoting the integrated development of domestic and foreign trade.
