html: nan
title: 商务部派驻第六届中国国际进口博览会工作人员临时党委在上海成立
resulting_text: 10月30日，商务部派驻第六届中国国际进口博览会工作人员临时党委在上海召开成立会议。会议传达学习了部党组书记、部长王文涛对商务部各级党组织、进博会临时党委及参与筹办工作全体党员干部的批示要求，部党组成员、副部长、临时党委书记盛秋平出席会议并讲话。现场参与筹办工作的党员干部代表作履职发言。 会议指出，举办进博会，是党中央推动新时代高水平对外开放的重大决策，是中国主动向世界开放市场的重要举措。第六届进博会将于11月5日至10日在上海全面线下举办。作为全球首个以进口为主题的国家级博览会，进博会搭建了国际采购、投资促进、人文交流和开放合作的国际平台，受到全球各界人士普遍欢迎与认可，各方参与进博会的热情高涨。参与筹办工作的全体党员干部要切实提高政治站位，深入学习贯彻习近平新时代中国特色社会主义思想和党的二十大精神，坚定拥护“两个确立”、坚决做到“两个维护”，深刻认识办好本届进博会的特殊重要意义，以高度的政治责任感和历史使命感，全力以赴办好本次盛会，在推进高水平对外开放中展现新担当、新作为。 会议强调，要充分发挥政治优势，以高质量党建引领和保障进博会“越办越好”。要胸怀“国之大者”，自觉将进博会放到推进中国式现代化的大局中去思考和把握，坚持商务工作“三个重要”定位，秉持开放合作、互利共赢理念，让各方宾朋乘兴而来、满意而归。要坚持以党的政治建设为统领，不断增强党组织的政治功能和组织功能，激励党员干部敢于担当、积极作为。要坚决扛起政治责任，不断把主题教育成果转化为办好进博会的强大动力和思路举措，牢固树立“一盘棋”思想，做到既为一域增光，又为全局添彩，不断放大进博会综合效应。要增强大局意识、责任意识、服务意识，强化系统观念、底线思维，做到守土有责、守土负责、守土尽责，为打造一届高标准、高质量、高水平的全球经贸盛会做出应有贡献。
input_url: 20231102210950/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202311/20231103450364.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20231216183633/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202311/20231103450364.shtml
date: 2023-11-03 00:00:00
translated_title: Temporary Party Committee of Ministry of Commerce Staff Stationed at the 6th China International Import Expo Established in Shanghai
translated_content: On October 30, the Ministry of Commerce assigned to the Sixth China International Import Expo staff temporary party committee held its inaugural meeting in Shanghai. The meeting conveyed and studied the party secretary of the ministry, minister Wang Wentao on the ministry of commerce at all levels of party organizations, the temporary party committee of the fair and all party members and cadres involved in the preparatory work of the instruction requirements, the ministry of party members, vice ministers, secretary of the temporary party committee Shengqiuping attended the meeting and made a speech. Representatives of party members and cadres involved in the preparatory work on site made speeches on their duties. The meeting pointed out that the organization of the Fair is a major decision of the CPC Central Committee to promote a new era of high-level opening up to the outside world, and it is an important initiative for China to take the initiative to open its market to the world. The sixth session of the Fair will be held from November 5 to 10 in Shanghai comprehensively offline. As the world's first import-themed national-level exposition, the Fair builds an international platform for international procurement, investment promotion, humanistic exchanges and open cooperation, which is generally welcomed and recognized by people from all walks of life around the world, and all parties are enthusiastic about participating in the Fair. All Party members and cadres involved in the preparatory work should effectively raise their political position, thoroughly study and implement Xi Jinping's Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era and the spirit of the 20th CPC National Congress, firmly uphold the "two establishments" and resolutely achieve the "two safeguards", and deeply understand the special significance of organizing this year's Fair. The special significance of the current Fair, with a high sense of political responsibility and sense of historical mission, go all out to do a good job of this event, to promote the high level of opening up to the outside world to show a new role, a new role. The meeting emphasized that we should give full play to the political advantages, with high-quality party building to lead and protect the Fair "better and better". We should bear in mind "the greatness of the country", consciously put the Fair into the promotion of Chinese modernization in the overall situation to think and grasp, adhere to the "three important" positioning of commercial work, uphold the concept of openness and cooperation, mutual benefit and win-win situation, so that all parties to come and go back with satisfaction. To adhere to the party's political construction as the overall leader, and constantly enhance the political and organizational functions of the party organization, to inspire party members and cadres to dare to play a role, and actively act. To firmly shoulder the political responsibility, and constantly transform the results of thematic education into a strong impetus to do a good job of the Expo and ideas and initiatives, firmly establish the "chess" idea, to do not only for a region to enhance the light, but also for the overall situation, and constantly amplify the comprehensive effect of the Expo. To enhance the sense of the overall situation, sense of responsibility, sense of service, strengthen the system concept, bottom-line thinking, to do the duty to guard the land, guard the land is responsible for, guard the land is responsible for, in order to create a high-standard, high-quality, high-level global economic and trade event to make its due contribution.
english_summary: On October 30, the Ministry of Commerce assigned to the Sixth China International Import Expo staff temporary party committee held its inaugural meeting in Shanghai. The meeting conveyed and studied the party secretary of the ministry, minister Wang Wentao's instruction requirements for the temporary party committee of the fair and all party members and cadres involved in the preparatory work. The sixth session of the Fair will be held from November 5 to 10 in Shanghai comprehensively offline, and all Party members and cadres involved in the preparatory work should effectively raise their political position and thoroughly study and implement Xi Jinping's Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era and the spirit of the 20th CPC National Congress. The meeting emphasized that we should give full play to the political advantages, with high-quality party building to lead and protect the Fair "better and better," and firmly shoulder the political responsibility, and constantly transform the results of thematic education into a strong impetus to do a good job of the Expo.
