html: nan
title: 商务部等10部门关于支持国家级经济技术开发区创新提升更好发挥示范作用若干措施的通知
resulting_text: 各省、自治区、直辖市及计划单列市、新疆生产建设兵团商务、发展改革 、 工业和信息化、自然资源、生态环境、交通运输、市场监管部门，海关总署广东分署 、 各直属海关，税务总局各省、自治区、直辖市及计划单列市税务局，各银保监局，各国家级经济技术开发区： 为全面贯彻党的二十大精神，把发展经济的着力点放在实体经济上，根据《国务院关于印发扎实稳住经济一揽子政策措施的通知》（国发〔 2022 〕 12 号）及其接续政策要求，支持国家级经济技术开发区（以下简称国家级经开区）稳定和扩大制造业引资规模，着力解决制造业发展所需资金、土地、人才等资源要素瓶颈制约，支持综合发展水平考核评价排名靠前的国家级经开区创新提升更好发挥示范作用，提出如下措施： 一、加大招商引资支持力度 （一）拓宽招商引资资源。 发挥中国国际投资贸易洽谈会、中国国际进口博览会等平台优势，加大对国家级经开区的宣传推介力度。探索从国家级经开区选派符合条件的干部赴驻外使领馆经商机构工作，拓宽对外交流渠道。 （二）用足用好资金政策。 充分利用现有资金渠道，支持国家级经开区举办各类招商引资活动，打造国际合作新载体，提升载体服务集约化、专业化、智能化水平，促进相关外向型产业发展。 （三）扩大开放平台叠加优势。 支持服务业扩大开放综合试点省市所属国家级经开区承担试点任务。鼓励国家级经开区内符合条件的企业用好自由贸易试验区、综合保税区平台政策，按规定开展 “ 两头在外 ” 的保税维修、跨境电商贸易便利化等创新业务。 二、强化制造业项目要素保障 （四）优化项目环评流程。 在符合园区规划环评结论和审查要求的基础上，对国家级经开区内的重大制造业项目依法简化项目环评内容，优化审批服务；对符合生态环境准入要求的项目加快环评审批。 （五）保障项目用地需求。 鼓励 对 国家级经开区实施重大引资项目建设用地予以支持 ，通过创新产业用地分类、鼓励土地混合使用、提高产业用地容积率上限、预留产业发展空间资源等措施，满足引进高端制造业外资项目用地需求。 各地自然资源主管部门应积极介入产业项目生成阶段或项目可研过程，通过节约集约用地专门评价，推动新上项目达到国内同行业节约集约用地先进水平。改进完善开发区节约集约评价考核指标体系，按实际控制或管理面积实事求是考核节约集约水平 。 （六）加大财政金融支持力度。 用好中央和地方现有资金渠道，并积极引导社会资本，支持实施符合条件的制造业项目，促进外向型产业提质增效 。 鼓励各类金融机构结合职能定位和业务范围，加大对国家级经开区 基础设施建设和 制造业发展支持力度， 助力 区内 基础设施建设和 制造业项目转型升级 及 绿色改造 。 三、着力推动制造业提质增效 （七）提升产业创新能力。 鼓励国家级经开区内制造业企业应用人工智能、大数据、工业云等新技术，以工业互联网平台为依托，开展智能制造，提升数字化、网络化、智能化发展水平。在产业链中运用智能采购、智能物流、供应链集成等技术，推动整体产业链融合和智能发展，对于国家级经开区智能制造优秀企业，优先支持其申报 “ 智能制造标准应用试点 ”“ 高新技术产业标准化试点示范 ” 。支持鼓励设立外资研发中心。 （八）积极培育产业集群。 发挥国家级经开区产业集聚优势，强化在 “ 稳链 ”“ 补链 ”“ 固链 ”“ 强链 ” 中的重要作用，依托主导产业和优势产业，构建以企业为主导、产学研用合作的创新网络，发展新技术、新模式、新业态，推动传统制造业转型升级和先进制造业、战略性新兴产业集群化发展。支持国家级经开区积极参与先进制造业集群发展专项行动。 （九）推进绿色低碳循环发展。 支持国家级经开区内制造业企业积极创建绿色制造标杆。支持国家级经开区创建生态文明建设示范区（生态工业园区）。 大力发展环境友好型绿色产业， 引入绿色低碳技术， 通过 绿色升级改造 推进低碳转型和节能减排 。鼓励对国家级经开区 发展风电、光电、地热等清洁能源 予以支持 ， 推动国家级经开区内企业参与绿色电力交易，持续 提升新能源装机容量和可再生能源使用比例。 四、全力维护产业链供应链稳定 （十）建立物流保障机制。 更好 统筹疫情防控与经济社会发展，充分发挥国务院物流保通保畅工作领导小组办公室作用，指导各地加强与制造业企业的跟踪对接，保障物流运输畅通，推动制造业项目尽快落地 。鼓励地方政府对港口、航运等物流运输保障重点企业给予防疫补贴等支持，加大完善货运枢纽集疏运条件的政策扶持力度，进一步提升通关效率和跨境贸易便利化水平 。鼓励国家级经开区之间探索建立产业链供应链重点企业疫情防控跨区域互信制度，地方政府对纳入互信制度的企业，予以复工复产、海关通关、物流运输等方面的支持政策，保障原材料、成品等运输畅通。 （十一）便利商务人员出入境。 在做好疫情防控前提下，为国家级经开区重点外资制造业企业、在谈重大和重点外资制造业项目高管、技术人员及家属出入境提供便利化服务保障。 （十二）推动产业链协同发展。 支持国家级经开区重点产业龙头企业及配套企业协同复工复产。建立国家级经开区直接联系机制，加强园区之间联系沟通，鼓励国家级经开区与中西部地区主导产业相近的国家级经开区加强产业转移与配套协作，维护上下游产业链供应链稳定。 商务部 发展改革委 工业和信息化部 自然资源部 生态环境部 交通运输部 市场监管总局 海关总署 税务总局 银保监会 2022 年 12 月 13 日
input_url: 20230101054308/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202212/20221203376062.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20221228174059/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202212/20221203376062.shtml
date: 2023-01-01 00:00:00
translated_title: Circular of the Ministry of Commerce and Other 10 Departments on Several Measures to Support State-level Economic and Technological Development Zones to Innovate and Improve and Better Play the Role of Demonstration
translated_content:  In order to fully implement the spirit of the 20th CPC National Congress and put the focus of economic development on the real economy, according to the Notice of the State Council on Issuing a Package of Policies and Measures for Solidly Stabilizing the Economy (Guofa [2022] No. 12) and its successor policies, the State-level Economic and Technological Development Zones (hereinafter referred to as the national economic and technological development zones) shall be supported in stabilizing and expanding the scale of attracting investments in the manufacturing industry, and shall make efforts to solve the bottleneck constraints of the resource elements required for the development of the manufacturing industry, including capital, land, and talents. Bottleneck constraints, to support the comprehensive development level assessment and evaluation of the top ranked state-level economic development zones to improve innovation and better play a demonstration role, put forward the following measures: First, increase investment support (a) to broaden the investment resources. Give full play to the China International Fair for Investment and Trade, China International Import Expo and other platform advantages, increase the national level of publicity and promotion of open areas. Explore the selection and dispatch of qualified cadres from national-level economic and development zones to work in foreign embassies and consulates and business organizations to broaden the channels of foreign exchange. (ii) Make full use of funding policies. Make full use of the existing funding channels to support national-level development zones to hold various investment activities, create new carriers for international cooperation, enhance the carrier service intensification, specialization, intelligent level, and promote the development of related export-oriented industries. (iii) Expanding the superposition advantage of the opening-up platform. Support the national-level economic development zones belonging to the provinces and cities in the comprehensive pilot project of expanding and opening up of the service industry to undertake the pilot task. Encourage eligible enterprises in national-level development zones to make good use of the Pilot Free Trade Zone, the comprehensive bonded zone platform policy, in accordance with the regulations to carry out "both outside" bonded maintenance, cross-border e-commerce trade facilitation and other innovative businesses. Second, strengthen the elements of manufacturing project security (d) optimize the project environmental assessment process. In line with the park planning EIA conclusions and review requirements on the basis of the major manufacturing projects within the state-level economic development zone in accordance with the law to simplify the content of the project EIA, optimize approval services; to meet the ecological and environmental access requirements of the project to accelerate the approval of the EIA. (v) Guaranteeing the demand for project land. Encourage the implementation of major capital-introducing projects in national-level economic development zones to be supported in terms of construction land, and to meet the land demand for the introduction of high-end manufacturing foreign investment projects through such measures as innovating the classification of industrial land, encouraging the mixed use of land, raising the upper limit of the floor area ratio of industrial land, and reserving space and resources for industrial development. The competent authorities in charge of natural resources in each region should actively intervene in the generation stage of industrial projects or the project feasibility study process, and promote the newly launched projects to reach the advanced level of land conservation and intensification in the same industry in China through the special evaluation of land conservation and intensification. Improve and perfect the evaluation and assessment index system of saving and intensifying land use in development zones, and assess the level of saving and intensifying land use according to the actual area under control or management. (F) Increase financial support. Make good use of the existing central and local funding channels, and actively guide social capital to support the implementation of eligible manufacturing projects, and promote the quality and efficiency of export-oriented industries. Encourage all kinds of financial institutions to combine their functions and scope of business to increase support for infrastructure construction and manufacturing development in national-level economic and development zones, and to assist the transformation and upgrading of infrastructure construction and manufacturing projects in the zones as well as green transformation. Third, focus on promoting the quality and efficiency of the manufacturing industry (7) to enhance industrial innovation capacity. Encourage manufacturing enterprises in national-level economic development zones to apply new technologies such as artificial intelligence, big data, industrial cloud, etc., and carry out intelligent manufacturing based on the industrial Internet platform, so as to enhance the level of digitalization, networking and intelligent development. Apply intelligent procurement, intelligent logistics, supply chain integration and other technologies in the industrial chain to promote the integration and intelligent development of the overall industrial chain, and give priority to support the declaration of " intelligent manufacturing standard application pilot " " pilot demonstration of standardization for high and new technology industries for outstanding enterprises of intelligent manufacturing in national-level economic development zones ". Support to encourage the establishment of foreign-funded R & D centers. (H) Actively cultivate industrial clusters. Give full play to the advantages of industrial clustering in national-level economic development zones, strengthen the important role in "stabilizing the chain", "supplementing the chain", "consolidating the chain", "strengthening the chain", and rely on the leading industrial clusters. Relying on the dominant and advantageous industries, it will build an enterprise-led innovation network with cooperation among industries, universities, research institutes and applications, develop new technologies, new modes and new business forms, and promote the transformation and upgrading of the traditional manufacturing industry as well as the clustering of advanced manufacturing industry and strategic emerging industries. Support national-level economic development zones to actively participate in the development of advanced manufacturing clusters special action. (ix) Promote green, low-carbon and recycling development. Support manufacturing enterprises in national-level economic development zones to actively create green manufacturing benchmarks. Support national-level economic development zones to create ecological civilization construction demonstration zones (eco-industrial parks). Vigorously develop environment-friendly green industries, introduce green and low-carbon technologies, and promote low-carbon transformation, energy conservation and emission reduction through green upgrading and transformation. Encourage the development of wind power, photovoltaic power, geothermal heat and other clean energy sources in national-level economic development zones, and promote the participation of enterprises in national-level economic development zones in green power trading, so as to continuously increase the installed capacity of new energy sources and the proportion of renewable energy sources. Maintaining the stability of the industrial chain and supply chain (j) Establishing a logistics protection mechanism. Better integrate epidemic prevention and control with economic and social development, give full play to the role of the State Council's Leading Group Office of Logistics, guide localities to strengthen tracking and docking with manufacturing enterprises, ensure smooth logistics and transportation, and promote manufacturing projects to land as soon as possible. Encourage local governments to give epidemic prevention subsidies and other support to key enterprises in ports, shipping and other logistics and transportation safeguards, increase policy support to improve the conditions of freight hubs for collection and evacuation, and further enhance the efficiency of customs clearance and the level of cross-border trade facilitation. Encourage national-level economic development zones to explore the establishment of industrial chain supply chain key enterprises epidemic prevention and control of cross-regional mutual trust system, the local government for the inclusion of mutual trust system of enterprises, to be resumed production, customs clearance, logistics and transportation support policies to protect raw materials, finished products, and other transportation smooth. (k) Facilitate the entry and exit of business people. Under the premise of epidemic prevention and control, provide facilitation services for the entry and exit of key foreign-funded manufacturing enterprises, executives, technicians and family members of major and key foreign-funded manufacturing projects under negotiation in the national-level economic and development zones. (XII) Promote the synergistic development of industrial chain. Supporting key industrial leading enterprises and supporting enterprises in national-level economic and development zones to resume work and production in a coordinated manner. Establish a direct contact mechanism for national-level economic development zones, strengthen communication between the zones, encourage national-level economic development zones and national-level economic development zones with similar leading industries in the central and western regions to strengthen industrial transfer and supporting collaboration, and maintain the stability of the upstream and downstream industrial chain supply chain. Ministry of Commerce Development and Reform Commission Ministry of Industry and Information Technology Ministry of Natural Resources Ministry of Ecology and Environment Ministry of Transportation General Administration of Market Supervision General Administration of Customs General Administration of Taxation General Administration of Banking and Insurance Regulatory Commission December 13, 2022
english_summary: The Chinese government has issued a circular supporting state-level economic and technological development zones in several ways to innovate, improve, and better play the role of demonstration for the real economy. The measures include increasing investment support, strengthening elements of manufacturing project security, and focusing on promoting the quality and efficiency of the manufacturing industry. Additionally, the government will facilitate the entry and exit of business people, support the synergistic development of industrial chain, and provide logistics protection mechanisms, among other measures. The purpose of these measures is to support the long-term stable development of China's economy and promote innovation.
