html: nan
title: 商务部 海关总署2023年第59号公告 2024年新西兰羊毛和毛条、澳大利亚羊毛进口国别关税配额管理实施细则
resulting_text: 为实施《中华人民共和国政府与新西兰政府自由贸易协定》《中华人民共和国政府与澳大利亚政府自由贸易协定》（以下简称《自贸协定》），根据《中华人民共和国货物进出口管理条例》《农产品进口关税配额管理暂行办法》和《2024年羊毛、毛条进口关税配额管理实施细则》，商务部、海关总署制定2024年新西兰羊毛和毛条、澳大利亚羊毛进口国别关税配额（以下简称国别关税配额）管理实施细则，现公告如下： 一、国别关税配额总量 2024年国别关税配额总量分别为：新西兰羊毛36936吨，新西兰毛条665吨，澳大利亚羊毛44324吨。实行国别关税配额管理的羊毛、毛条税目见附件1。 二、分配原则 国别关税配额实行凭合同先来先领的分配方式。当发放数量累计达到2024年国别关税配额总量，商务部停止接受申请。 三、申请条件 2024年国别关税配额申请企业应符合以下基本条件： （一）2024年1月1日前在市场监督管理部门登记注册。 （二）没有违反《农产品进口关税配额管理暂行办法》和《2023年羊毛、毛条进口国别关税配额管理实施细则》的行为。 （三）无其他违反法律、行政法规规定的行为及严重失信行为（包括但不限于被列入“信用中国”网站严重失信主体名单）。 在具备上述基本条件的前提下，国别关税配额申请企业还必须符合下列条件之一： （一）持有 2023年国别关税配额且有进口实绩（不包括代理进口）的企业（以下称有实绩申请者）； （二）羊毛、毛条年加工能力3000吨及以上的毛纺生产企业（以下称无实绩申请者）。 四、国别关税配额申领 有实绩申请者在年度内可多次申领国别关税配额，但2024年9月30日前累计申领数量不超过2023年的进口数量。进口数量按商务部委托机构（省级地方商务主管部门及商务部配额许可证事务局）收到并在农产品进口关税配额管理系统（以下简称配额管理系统）核销的《中华人民共和国农产品进口关税配额证》（以下简称配额证）累计数量（不包括超出配额证的溢装量）计算。 五、国别关税配额再分配 持有2024年国别关税配额的最终用户当年无法将已申领到的全部配额量签订进口合同或已签订合同无法完成，须在9月15日前将无法完成的配额量交还原发证机构。9月30日后，商务部对剩余可供分配数量进行再分配。已完成第四条规定数量的有实绩者和符合条件的无实绩者可以递交国别关税配额再分配申请。 （一）申请材料 1.羊毛、毛条国别关税配额申请表（见附件2）可从商务部网站（www.mofcom.gov.cn）下载。为便利企业，自2024年起，羊毛、毛条国别关税配额申请表不再区分贸易方式，企业在申领配额证时自行选择贸易方式。 2.羊毛、毛条进口合同。 3.主管部门对建设项目的批复文件或备案文件，以及竣工验收报告（无实绩申请者提供）。 （二）申请企业于2024年9月20日前通过配额管理系统线上填写并向商务部委托机构提交申请材料，其中地方企业向省级地方商务主管部门提交申请材料，中央企业向商务部配额许可证事务局提交申请材料。逾期不再接收。 （三）商务部委托机构于2024年9月30日前将汇总后的国别关税配额申请以书面形式送达商务部（行政事务服务大厅），同时将企业申请信息及材料上传至配额管理系统。 商务部委托机构寄送申请材料需注明： 北京市东长安街2号商务部行政事务服务大厅 项目编码18015-001(羊毛、毛条进口关税配额申请材料) 邮编100731，联系电话010-65197961 （四）商务部将在官方网站上对符合申请条件拟再分配的企业信息进行公示（公示期和举报意见提交方式将在公示时一并规定）。公示期内，任何主体均可就所公示信息的真实性进行举报。公示期限届满后，商务部将举报信息交委托机构进行核查。核查期间，被举报申请企业有权通过书面等方式，就举报涉及的相关问题向委托机构提出异议。委托机构审阅被举报申请企业提出的异议并完成调查核实后，向商务部就举报意见的真实性反馈核查情况。 （五）经商务部核准的再分配企业可继续申领国别关税配额。 六、国别关税配额证核发 商务部在配额管理系统收到填报完整的申请后，于5个工作日内将审批结果通知商务部委托机构。商务部委托机构于5个工作日内以电子形式向最终用户签发配额证，并将电子数据传输至海关。在配额证备注栏中需明确标注“新西兰羊毛、毛条国别配额”或“澳大利亚羊毛国别配额”，配额证面显示数量为洗净/公定数量。过期未使用的，配额管理系统将收回申请数量，并相应扣减该企业当年可申领数量。 七、国别关税配额证海关验核 国别关税配额持有者进口时，应据实向海关申报进口羊毛、毛条的洗净/公定数量，凭电子配额证向海关办理进口手续。经海关审核确认并符合《自贸协定》有关规定的，可适用《自贸协定》协定税率；若不符合《自贸协定》有关规定，则适用最惠国税率或普通税率。 八、国别关税配额证期限 配额证自签发之日起3个月内有效，最迟不得超过2024年12月31日。 对2024年12月31日前从始发港出运，需在次年到货的，国别关税配额持有者需于12月31日前向商务部委托机构提交装船单证及有效配额证申请延期，延期的配额证有效期最迟不超过2025年2月28日。 九、国别关税配额退回与核销 （一）在配额证有效期内，国别关税配额持有者未使用或未用完已申领的配额，需通过配额管理系统提交退回申请。商务部委托机构及时将已使用数量在配额管理系统中核销并退回未使用数量。商务部将配额证所列剩余配额予以收回，计入国别关税配额余量。当年无法完成的国别关税配额量最迟退回日期不得超过2024年9月15日。未按期交回者，视同未完成进口，等比例扣减2025年可申领数量。 （二）国别关税配额持有者在进口货物办结海关手续后20个工作日内，需通过配额管理系统向签发配额证的商务部委托机构提交核销申请。商务部委托机构需及时在配额管理系统进行核销。办理延期的配额证最迟核销期不得超过2025年3月31日。未按期核销者，视同未完成进口，等比例扣减2025年可申领数量。 十、罚则 申请企业对其提交申请材料和信息的真实性承担主体责任，不得有任何隐瞒或提供虚假信息，经核查确定申报材料和信息不属实的，不予受理其国别关税配额的申请。对伪造合同或有关材料骗取配额证的，商务部及其委托机构两年内不再受理其国别关税配额的申请。对伪造、变造或者买卖配额证的，将依法追究其刑事责任。 附件： 1.羊毛、毛条进口税目表.wps 2.羊毛、毛条进口国别关税配额申请表.wps 商务部  海关总署 2023年12月20日
input_url: 20231227001057/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202312/20231203462726.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20231225052944/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202312/20231203462726.shtml
date: 2023-12-27 00:00:00
translated_title: Ministry of Commerce General Administration of Customs Announcement No. 59 of 2023 Implementing Rules for the Administration of Country-Specific Tariff Quotas for the Import of New Zealand Wool and Woolen Bars and Australian Wool in 2024
translated_content: In order to implement the Free Trade Agreement between the Government of the People's Republic of China and the Government of New Zealand and the Free Trade Agreement between the Government of the People's Republic of China and the Government of Australia (hereinafter referred to as FTA), according to the "Regulations of the People's Republic of China on the Administration of the Import and Export of Goods," "Interim Measures for the Administration of Tariff Quotas on the Import of Agricultural Products," and the "Regulations for the Implementation of the Administration of Tariff Quotas on the Importation of Wool and Woolen Bars for the Year 2024" the Ministry of Commerce, General Administration of Customs to develop 2024 New Zealand wool and wool, Australian wool imports of country-specific tariff quota (hereinafter referred to as country-specific tariff quota) management implementation rules, are announced as follows: First, the total amount of country-specific tariff quota 2024 total country-specific tariff quota were: New Zealand wool 36,936 tons, New Zealand 665 tons of wool, Australian wool 44,324 tons. The tariff lines of wool and woolen articles under the administration of country-specific tariff quotas are listed in Annex 1. Principles of Allocation Country-specific tariff quotas are allocated on a first-come-first-served basis on the basis of contracts. The Ministry of Commerce will stop accepting applications when the cumulative number of issued quotas reaches the total number of country-specific tariff quotas in 2024. Application conditions The enterprises applying for country-specific tariff quotas in 2024 shall meet the following basic conditions: (a) registered in the market supervision and management department before January 1, 2024, (b) not in violation of the "Agricultural Products Import Quota". (ii) No violation of the Interim Measures for the Administration of Tariff Quotas for the Import of Agricultural Products and the Implementing Rules for the Administration of Country-Specific Tariff Quotas for the Import of Wool and Woolen Bars in 2023. (iii) No other violation of laws and administrative regulations and serious breach of trust (including but not limited to being included in the list of serious breach of trust on the website of "Credit China"). On the premise of the above basic conditions, the country-specific tariff quota applicant enterprises must also meet one of the following conditions: (a) hold the country-specific tariff quota in 2023 and have a track record of imports (excluding agency imports) (hereinafter referred to as the applicant with a track record); (b) wool, wool and wool processing capacity of 3,000 tons per year and above wool textile enterprises (hereinafter referred to as the applicant without a track record). Fourth, country-specific tariff quota claim applicants with solid performance in the year can apply for country-specific tariff quotas, but before September 30, 2024, the cumulative number of claims does not exceed the number of 2023 imports. The import quantity is calculated based on the cumulative quantity of the "Tariff Quota Certificate for the Import of Agricultural Products of the People's Republic of China" (hereinafter referred to as the quota certificate) (excluding the overloaded quantity exceeding the quota certificate) received by the commissioned institutions of the Ministry of Commerce (local commerce authorities at the provincial level and the Bureau of Quota and License Affairs of the Ministry of Commerce) and canceled in the quota import management system of the quota management system for agricultural products (hereinafter referred to as the quota management system). V. Country-specific tariff quota redistribution Holding 2024 country-specific tariff quota end-users in the year can not be applied to all the quota volume has signed an import contract or has signed a contract can not be completed, shall be unable to complete the quota volume in September 15 before the return to the original licensing agency. after September 30, the Ministry of Commerce of the remaining quantities available for allocation for redistribution. Those who have completed the quantities stipulated in Article 4 and those who meet the conditions without achievements can submit the application for reallocation of country-specific tariff quotas. (I) Application Materials 1. The application form for country-specific tariff quotas for wool and woolen bars (see Annex 2) can be downloaded from the website of the Ministry of Commerce (www.mofcom.gov.cn). For the convenience of enterprises, from 2024 onwards, the application form for country-specific tariff quotas for wool and woolen bars will no longer distinguish between trade modes, and enterprises will choose their own trade modes when applying for quota certificates. 2. Wool and woolen bar import contract. 3. Approval or filing documents of the competent authorities for the construction project, and the completion and acceptance report (provided by applicants without actual performance). (ii) The applicant enterprises shall fill in and submit the application materials to the commissioned organizations of the Ministry of Commerce on line through the quota management system before September 20, 2024, of which the local enterprises shall submit the application materials to the local commerce authorities at the provincial level, and the central enterprises shall submit the application materials to the Quota License Affairs Bureau of the Ministry of Commerce. The application materials will not be received after the deadline. (C) The commissioned organization of the Ministry of Commerce will send the summarized applications for country-specific tariff quotas in written form to the Ministry of Commerce (Administrative Affairs Service Hall) before September 30, 2024, and at the same time upload the application information and materials of the enterprises to the quota management system. The Ministry of Commerce entrusts the organization to send the application materials to indicate: Administrative Affairs Service Hall of the Ministry of Commerce, No. 2, East Chang'an Street, Beijing, Beijing, Project Code 18015-001 (wool, wool import tariff quota application materials) Zip Code 100731, contact telephone 010-65197961 (d) The Ministry of Commerce will be in the official website on the application conditions to be reallocated to the enterprise information will be made public (the publicity period and). (The period of publicity and the way of submitting reports and opinions will be stipulated together with the publicity). During the publicity period, any subject may report on the authenticity of the information published. After the expiration of the public period, the Ministry of Commerce will report the information to the commissioned organization for verification. During the verification period, the reported application for the enterprise has the right to report in writing, etc., on the report involves the relevant issues to the commissioning body to raise objections. Commissioned by the agency to review the reported application for business objections and complete the investigation and verification, to the Ministry of Commerce on the authenticity of the report feedback verification. (E) approved by the Ministry of Commerce redistribution of enterprises can continue to apply for country-specific tariff quotas. VI. Issuance of country-specific tariff quota certificates The Ministry of Commerce in the quota management system to receive a complete application, within five working days of the approval results will be notified to the Ministry of Commerce commissioned organizations. The commissioned organization of the Ministry of Commerce will issue the quota certificate to the end-user in electronic form within 5 working days, and transmit the electronic data to the Customs. In the remarks column of the quota certificate should be clearly labeled "New Zealand wool, wool country quota" or "Australian wool country quota", and the quantity shown on the face of the quota certificate is the washed/grossed quantity. If the quota is not used after the expiration date, the quota management system will take back the quantity applied for and deduct the quantity that the enterprise can apply for that year accordingly. VII. Customs verification of country-specific tariff quota certificate When importing country-specific tariff quota holders, they should truthfully declare to the Customs imported wool, wool washing/fixed quantity, with the electronic quota certificate to the Customs for import procedures. If it is confirmed by the Customs and conforms to the relevant provisions of the FTA, the agreed duty rate of the FTA can be applied; if it does not conform to the relevant provisions of the FTA, the most-favored-nation (MFN) duty rate or the ordinary duty rate will be applied. VIII. Duration of country-specific tariff quota certificates The quota certificates are valid for three months from the date of issuance, and shall not exceed December 31, 2024 at the latest. For shipments from the port of departure before December 31, 2024, need to arrive in the following year, country-specific tariff quota holders need to be submitted to the Ministry of Commerce commissioned by the shipment of documents and valid quota certificate to apply for an extension of the extension of the validity of the quota certificate shall not exceed February 28, 2025 at the latest. IX. Return and Cancellation of Country Specific Tariff Quotas (1) Within the validity period of the quota certificate, the country specific tariff quota holders who have not utilized or have not used up the applied quota shall submit the application for return through the quota management system. The Ministry of Commerce commissions the organization to promptly cancel the used quantity in the quota management system and return the unused quantity. The Ministry of Commerce will take back the remaining quota listed in the quota certificate, which will be counted as the balance of the country-specific tariff quota. The latest return date of the country-specific tariff quota that cannot be completed in the current year shall not exceed September 15, 2024 at the latest. Those who fail to return the quota by the due date shall be regarded as having failed to complete the importation, and the quantity that can be claimed in 2025 shall be deducted in equal proportion. (ii) The holder of country-specific tariff quota shall submit the application for cancellation to the agency commissioned by the Ministry of Commerce that issued the quota certificate through the quota management system within 20 working days after the customs formalities of the imported goods have been completed. The commissioned organization of the Ministry of Commerce shall cancel the quota in the quota management system in time. The latest write-off period of the quota certificate for extension shall not exceed March 31, 2025 at the latest. Failure to comply with the deadline for write-off, as if the import has not been completed, equal proportion of the number of 2025 can be applied for deduction. X. Penalties The applicant enterprises shall bear the main responsibility for the authenticity of the application materials and information submitted by them, and shall not have any concealment or provide false information. If it is verified that the declared materials and information are not true, the application for country-specific tariff quotas shall not be accepted. The Ministry of Commerce and its commissioned organizations will not accept the application for country-specific tariff quota within two years for those who falsify contracts or relevant materials to obtain quota certificates fraudulently. Any person who forges, falsifies or trades in quota certificates will be investigated for criminal responsibility according to law. Annex: 1.Wool, wool import tariff table.wps 2.Wool, wool import country tariff quota application form.wps Ministry of Commerce General Administration of Customs December 20, 2023
english_summary: The Ministry of Commerce and the General Administration of Customs of China have announced the implementation rules for the administration of country-specific tariff quotas for the import of New Zealand wool and woolen bars, and Australian wool for 2024. The rules detail how and when the quotas can be allocated, how to apply for them, and how to verify and manage them. The quotas for 2024 will be allocated on a first-come-first-served basis based on import contracts, and those who have solid performance in the year can apply for a higher allocation. Those who cannot complete the quota for various reasons can return it before September 15, 2024, and the remaining quantities can be reallocated. The quota management system will take back the unused quantities at the end of the year and deduct them from the quotas that can be applied for in the future year. The rules also detail how to return and cancel the quotas at the end of the year and how to handle penalties for falsifying information. The quota certificates are valid for three months from the date of issuance, and can be extended if needed. The rules also allow for redistribution of the remaining quantities if they are not used by the end of the year. The quotas have been announced, and the rules provide guidance on how to manage them.
