html: nan
title: 商务部服贸司负责人解读《商务部等12部门关于加快生活服务数字化赋能的指导意见》 [政策原文]
resulting_text: 经国务院批准，商务部等12部门于2023年12月19日联合印发《关于加快生活服务数字化赋能的指导意见》（以下简称《意见》），指导推进生活服务业数字化转型升级，实现高质量发展。近日，商务部服贸司负责人对《意见》进行了解读。 一、《意见》出台的背景 党中央、国务院高度重视生活服务业数字化转型升级。习近平总书记指出，要推动数字经济和实体经济融合发展，把握数字化、网络化、智能化方向，推动制造业、服务业、农业等产业数字化，利用互联网新技术对传统产业进行全方位、全链条的改造。中共中央、国务院印发的《数字中国建设整体布局规划》明确提出普及数字生活智能化，打造智慧便民生活圈、新型数字消费业态、面向未来的智能化沉浸式服务体验。 生活服务业是促消费、惠民生、稳就业的重要领域。近年来，随着以大数据、云计算、区块链等为代表的新一代信息技术的广泛应用，生活服务业新业态新模式不断涌现，数字化转型升级趋势明显。与此同时，生活服务数字化发展仍存在一些问题和短板，如行业间、地区间、产业链上下游数字化发展水平不均衡，数字化转型升级的技术、人才要素支撑不足等。 为深入贯彻党中央、国务院决策部署，促进数字经济和实体经济融合发展，通过数字化赋能推动生活服务业转型升级，实现高质量发展，更好满足人民日益增长的美好生活需要，商务部会同相关部门研究起草了《意见》。近日，经国务院同意，《意见》正式印发实施。 二、《意见》的总体思路和主要内容 《意见》以习近平新时代中国特色社会主义思想为指导，全面贯彻落实党的二十大精神，立足新发展阶段，完整、准确、全面贯彻新发展理念，以推动高质量发展为主题，把实施扩大内需战略同深化供给侧结构性改革有机结合，以数字化驱动生活服务业向高品质和多样化升级，助力数字中国建设。 《意见》从五个方面提出19条具体任务举措。一是丰富生活服务数字化应用场景。提出推动商贸服务、交通运输、文旅、教育、医疗健康等领域数字化转型升级的有关举措。二是补齐生活服务数字化发展短板。立足当前生活服务数字化转型升级面临的问题和瓶颈，提出加强生活服务数字化基础设施建设、打造数字生活服务社区和街区、建立生活服务数字化标准体系、完善数字化适老助残应用和服务等举措。三是激发生活服务数字化发展动能。从培育生活服务数字化平台、培育生活服务数字化品牌、开展线上线下融合促消费活动等方面，为生活服务数字化增添发展新动力。四是夯实生活服务数字化发展基础。从加强数字化技术运用、强化数字化金融支撑、培养数字化专业人才、提升数字化管理水平、增强数据安全保护与融合应用能力等方面，为生活服务数字化转型升级夯实基础。五是强化支持保障措施。从加强组织协调和做好宣传推广方面提出要求，确保各项举措落到实处。 三、《意见》的主要特点 一是突出创新驱动。《意见》积极支持生活服务数字化新技术、新业态、新模式发展。通过建设生活服务数字化赋能中心、培育生活服务数字化平台等，为传统生活服务企业转型升级提供数字化场景支持。通过加强数字化技术运用，支持技术创新，发掘数字化发展潜力，为生活服务业实现高质量发展插上数字化的翅膀。 二是聚焦民生福祉。《意见》坚持以人民为中心的发展思想，支持在商贸服务、交通运输、文旅、教育、医疗健康等与人民群众生活密切相关的领域加强数字化赋能，丰富数字化应用场景，以此促进生活服务智能化、绿色化、标准化、品牌化，使人民群众能更多享受到高效、便捷、优质的生活服务。 三是着力补齐短板。聚焦生活服务数字化基础设施建设不完善、适宜老年人和残障人士便利使用的智能技术相对欠缺、数字化人才不足、数据安全有待加强等问题，《意见》提出加强生活服务数字化基础设施建设、完善数字化适老助残应用和服务、培养数字化专业人才、增强数据安全保护与融合应用能力等举措，加快补齐生活服务数字化转型升级中的短板弱项，进一步夯实生活服务高质量发展基础。 下一步，商务部将会同各部门、各地方抓好文件落实和政策落地，推动生活服务业数字化转型升级，实现高质量发展，发挥生活服务业在促消费、惠民生、稳就业方面的重要作用，更好服务构建新发展格局。
input_url: 20231224001357/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcjd/202312/20231203462051.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20231221091931/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcjd/202312/20231203462051.shtml
date: 2023-12-24 00:00:00
translated_title: The person in charge of the Department of Services and Trade of the Ministry of Commerce explains the "Guidance of the Ministry of Commerce and 12 Other Departments on Accelerating the Digital Empowerment of Life Services" [Original policy text]
translated_content: Approved by the State Council, the Ministry of Commerce and other 12 departments jointly issued the Guiding Opinions on Accelerating the Digital Empowerment of Living Services (hereinafter referred to as the Opinions) on December 19, 2023, to guide the promotion of digital transformation and upgrading of the living services industry to achieve high-quality development. Recently, the person in charge of the Department of Trade in Services of the Ministry of Commerce interpreted the Opinions. I. Background of the Opinions The Party Central Committee and the State Council attach great importance to the digital transformation and upgrading of the living services industry. General Secretary Xi Jinping pointed out that it is necessary to promote the integration and development of the digital economy and the real economy, grasp the direction of digitization, networking and intelligence, promote the digitalization of the manufacturing industry, the service industry, agriculture and other industries, and make use of the Internet to carry out an all-round, whole-chain transformation of the traditional industries with the new technology. The Overall Layout Plan for the Construction of Digital China issued by the CPC Central Committee and the State Council explicitly proposes to popularize the intelligence of digital life, and to create a smart and convenient living area, new digital consumption patterns, and future-oriented intelligent immersive service experience. The life service industry is an important field for promoting consumption, benefiting people's livelihood and stabilizing employment. In recent years, with the extensive application of a new generation of information technology represented by big data, cloud computing, blockchain and other information technology, new forms and new modes of living services are emerging, and the trend of digital transformation and upgrading is obvious. At the same time, there are still some problems and short boards in the digital development of living services, such as the uneven level of digital development among industries, regions, and upstream and downstream of the industrial chain, and the insufficient support of technology and talent elements for digital transformation and upgrading. In order to implement the Party Central Committee and the State Council's decision-making and deployment, promote the integration and development of the digital economy and the real economy, promote the transformation and upgrading of the living services industry through digital empowerment, to achieve high-quality development, and to better meet the people's growing needs for a better life, the Ministry of Commerce, in conjunction with the relevant departments, studied and drafted the "Opinions". Recently, with the consent of the State Council, the Opinions were officially issued and implemented. Second, the general idea and main content of the Opinions The Opinions are guided by Xi Jinping's Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era, comprehensively implement the spirit of the 20th CPC National Congress, based on the new stage of development, fully, accurately and comprehensively carry out the New Development Concept, promote high-quality development as the theme, organically combine the implementation of the strategy of expanding domestic demand with the deepening of the supply-side structural reform, and digitize and drive the life service industry to high quality and diversification, and help the construction of digital China. The Opinions put forward 19 specific tasks and initiatives in five aspects. First, it enriches the digital application scenarios of living services. The Opinions put forward initiatives to promote digital transformation and upgrading in the fields of commerce and trade services, transportation, culture and tourism, education, healthcare and other areas. The second is to make up for the shortcomings in the development of digitalization of living services. Based on the current problems and bottlenecks faced by the digital transformation and upgrading of living services, it puts forward initiatives to strengthen the digital infrastructure construction of living services, build digital living service communities and neighborhoods, establish a standard system for the digitalization of living services, and improve the digital applications and services for the elderly and the disabled. Thirdly, it stimulates the development momentum of life service digitization. In terms of fostering living services digitalization platforms, cultivating living services digitalization brands, and carrying out online and offline integration activities to promote consumption, it has added new momentum to the development of living services digitalization. Fourth, to strengthen the foundation for the development of life services digitalization. From strengthening the use of digital technology, strengthening the digital financial support, cultivating digital professionals, improving the level of digital management, enhancing data security protection and integration of application capabilities, etc., for the digital transformation and upgrading of life services to consolidate the foundation. Fifth, strengthen the support and guarantee measures. Requirements have been put forward in terms of strengthening organizational coordination and doing a good job in publicity and promotion to ensure that all initiatives are put into practice. Third, the main features of the "Opinions" First, highlight the innovation drive. The Opinions actively support the development of new technologies, new forms and new modes of life service digitization. Through the construction of life service digital empowerment centers and the cultivation of life service digital platforms, it provides digital scene support for the transformation and upgrading of traditional life service enterprises. By strengthening the use of digital technology, supporting technological innovation, and exploring the potential for digital development, the life services industry has been given digital wings to achieve high-quality development. Second, focus on people's well-being. The Opinions adhere to the people-centered development ideology, supporting the strengthening of digital empowerment in areas closely related to people's lives, such as business and trade services, transportation, culture and tourism, education, healthcare, etc., and enriching digital application scenarios, so as to promote the intelligence, greening, standardization, and branding of living services, and to enable people to enjoy more efficient, convenient, and high-quality living services. Third, focus on making up the short board. Focusing on the imperfect construction of digital infrastructure for living services, the relative lack of intelligent technologies suitable for the elderly and people with disabilities, the insufficiency of digital talents, data security needs to be strengthened and other issues, the Opinions put forward to strengthen the construction of digital infrastructure for living services, improve the digital applications and services suitable for the elderly and people with disabilities, cultivate digital professionals, and enhance the protection of data security and the integration and application of the ability to take such initiatives.  As a next step, the Ministry of Commerce will work with various departments and localities to implement the documents and policies, promote the digital transformation and upgrading of the living services industry, realize high-quality development, and give full play to the important role of the living services industry in promoting consumption, benefiting the people's livelihoods and stabilizing employment, so as to provide better services for the construction of a new development pattern.
english_summary: The State Council and the Ministry of Commerce, along with 12 other departments, jointly issued the "Opinions on Accelerating the Digital Empowerment of Living Services" on December 19, 2023. The issuance of the "Opinions" is a response to the Party Central Committee and the State Council's strong focus on the digital transformation and upgrading of the living services industry, as well as the need to better meet the growing demand of the public for a better quality of life. The "Opinions" are expected to help promote the integration and development of the digital economy and the real economy as well as accelerate the upgrading of the living service industry
