html: nan
title: 商务部等13部门办公厅（室）关于印发《全面推进城市一刻钟便民生活圈建设三年行动计划(2023-2025)》的通知
resulting_text: 各省、自治区、直辖市及计划单列市、新疆生产建设兵团商务、发展改革、民政、财政、人力资源社会保障、自然资源、住房城乡建设、文化和旅游、卫生健康、市场监管、体育、邮政管理部门，各银保监局： 为深入贯彻党的二十大和中央经济工作会议精神，落实《国务院办公厅关于印发“十四五”城乡社区服务体系建设规划的通知》（国办发〔2021〕56号）、《商务部等12部门关于推进城市一刻钟便民生活圈建设的意见》（商流通函〔2021〕176号）等文件要求，全面推进城市一刻钟便民生活圈建设，商务部等13部门研究制定了《全面推进城市一刻钟便民生活圈建设三年行动计划(2023-2025)》。现印发给你们，请结合实际认真贯彻落实。 商务部办公厅                  国家发展改革委办公厅 民政部办公厅                  财政部办公厅 人力资源社会保障部办公厅      自然资源部办公厅 住房城乡建设部办公厅          文化和旅游部办公厅 国家卫生健康委办公厅          市场监管总局办公厅 金融监管总局办公厅            体育总局办公厅 国家邮政局办公室 2023年7月11日 全面推进城市一刻钟便民生活圈建设 三年行动计划(2023-2025) 为深入贯彻党的二十大和中央经济工作会议精神，落实《国务院办公厅关于印发“十四五”城乡社区服务体系建设规划的通知》（国办发〔2021〕56号）、《商务部等12部门关于推进城市一刻钟便民生活圈建设的意见》（商流通函〔2021〕176号，以下简称《意见》）等文件要求，全面推进城市一刻钟便民生活圈建设，制定本行动计划。 一、总体思路 以习近平新时代中国特色社会主义思想为指导，践行以人民为中心的发展思想，坚持“问需于民、问计于民”“缺什么、补什么”“因城施策、一圈一策”的原则，按照“试点带动、典型引路、全面推开”的路径，聚焦补齐基本保障类业态、发展品质提升类业态，优化社区商业网点布局，改善社区消费条件，创新社区消费场景，提升居民生活品质，将一刻钟便民生活圈打造成保障和改善民生、恢复和扩大消费的重要载体。 二、工作目标 按照《意见》等文件明确的“十四五”时期每年选取试点、打造“百城千圈”的总体目标，到2025年，在全国有条件的地级以上城市全面推开，推动多种类型的一刻钟便民生活圈建设，形成一批布局合理、业态齐全，功能完善、服务优质，智慧高效、快捷便利，规范有序、商居和谐的便民生活圈，服务便利化、标准化、智慧化、品质化水平进一步提升，对恢复和扩大消费的支撑作用更加明显，居民综合满意度达到90％以上。 三、实施重点 （一）系统谋划设计，优化社区商业布局。 坚持问需于民与顶层设计相结合，创新工作方式，将一刻钟便民生活圈纳入街道社区的居民议事协商机制，摸清“有什么、缺什么”，研究“补什么、如何补”。相关城市要结合人口分布、消费习惯等，科学编制一刻钟便民生活圈建设总体方案及各生活圈子方案（以下称“1+N”方案），因地制宜、一圈一策，把居民的需求清单转化为项目清单。推广社区规划师制度，支持设计师进社区，加强专业化指导，合理布局商业网点，促进商业设施与公共设施联动，商业文化与消费习惯协调。 （二）改善消费条件，丰富居民消费业态。 在居民“家门口”（步行5-10分钟范围内），优先配齐购物、餐饮、家政、快递、维修等基本保障类业态，引进智能零售终端，让消费更便捷。在居民“家周边”（步行15分钟范围内），因地制宜发展文化、娱乐、休闲、社交、康养、健身等品质提升类业态，让消费更舒心。 发展“一店一早”。 支持特色化、多元化的各类市场主体发展，推动品牌连锁便利店（社区超市）进社区，搭载代扣代缴、代收代发、打印复印等便民服务，提高便利化程度。以早餐店、小吃店、“便利店+早餐服务”“互联网+早餐服务”等为主体，构建多层次早餐供应体系，增加网点密度，丰富早餐品种，保障居民“吃得好”。 补齐 “ 一菜一修”。 支持菜市场（菜店）标准化、智慧化改造，拓展服务业态，提升环境、卫生和质量，促进放心消费、惠民消费。规范有序发展集修鞋、配钥匙等“小修小补”于一体的社区工坊，明码标价，提供平价维修服务。 服务 “一老一小”。 鼓励按照适老化标准建设改造社区养老服务设施，支持养老机构利用配套设施提供社区养老服务。探索发展社区食堂，建立老年人助餐服务网络。鼓励建立社区护理站，为行动不便的失能、残疾、高龄、长期患病老年人提供上门医疗护理服务。鼓励家政、护理人员进社区，拓展生活照料、健康管理、康复护理、精神慰藉等居家养老服务。各类消费场所应保留现金、银行卡等传统支付方式和面对面人工服务，引导设立老年人、母婴专柜和体验店。鼓励社区商业中心等场所建设母婴设施并悬挂引导标识，发展嵌入式、标准化的托育机构和托育点，提供全日托、半日托、临时托、计时托等平价服务。 （三）创新消费场景，增强多元消费体验。 改造传统商业载体。 引导邻近居民区的传统商场向社区商业中心转型，拓展特色餐饮、生活零售、文化休闲、儿童娱乐、运动健身、社区食堂等服务功能。 发展新型商业模式。 支持发展线上线下融合的即时零售模式（平台下单+就近门店配送，就近门店下单+即时配送），赋能实体门店，拓展服务半径。支持净菜进社区、进超市，发展“中央厨房+冷链+餐饮”模式，提升预制菜产品质量品质。 激发服务消费活力。 鼓励健身房、游泳馆、多功能运动场、保健理疗店等进社区，促进健康消费。鼓励社区规范开展邻里节、美食节、团购节、家电家居及家政便民服务等促消费活动，繁荣社区商业。 促进融合协同发展 。 推动一刻钟便民生活圈与养老托育圈、文化休闲圈、健康健身圈、金融服务圈、快递服务圈等圈圈相融，营造多元化、多层次的消费场景。 （四）推动技术赋能，提升智慧便捷水平。 推广先进技术。 鼓励利用物联网、云计算、大数据、人工智能等技术，推动商品、门店、会员及供应链数字化，提升服务质量和管理效率，降低综合成本。发展智慧商店、共享书店、智能快件箱等业态，提供现场交互、无接触交易、智能结算、自助售卖等服务，提升数字化体验。 搭建供需对接平台。 构建一刻钟便民生活圈智慧服务平台，整合商户资源，实现线上线下互动。利用大数据开展监测分析，精准补建网点，拓展服务功能，挖掘消费潜力。推广一刻钟便民生活圈网点动态地图、“小修小补”便民地图，引导更多点位“进图”，让居民“找得到”。 （五）促进就业创业，提高社区居民收入。 为居民在社区就业提供便利，打造宜居宜业环境。支持自由职业者灵活就业、远程办公、兼职就业，从事即时零售、餐饮服务、线上培训等平台衍生业务。支持高校毕业生创业就业，从事创意经济、个性化定制化文化业态等特色经营，创新网红店、特色店、精品店。优先为残疾人等就业困难人员推荐低门槛、有保障的爱心岗位，服务社区居民。尊重退休人员意愿，发挥其在文化艺术、专业技术等领域专长，鼓励量力而行参与志愿服务活动，为有再就业需求的退休人员提供服务。 四、保障措施 （一）加强组织领导。 一刻钟便民生活圈建设事关百姓冷暖、民生福祉，既是提升城市功能品质、恢复和扩大消费的有力举措，也是践行商务为民、解决群众“急难愁盼”的民生工程。各地要高度重视，加强组织，统筹协调推进。鼓励实行市长（区长）负责制，科学建立工作体系、政策体系、评价体系，调动各方力量，探索形成长效机制。 （二）强化政策保障。 加强部门协调，将一刻钟便民生活圈建设与城乡社区服务体系建设、城市更新、城镇老旧小区改造、15分钟社区生活圈规划建设、完整社区建设试点、“国球进社区”“国球进公园”活动等工作相衔接，同谋划、同选取、同推进，加强政策集成，形成工作合力。 释放各类经营用房资源，加快出租转让、改造开发，支持引入专业化运营商，统一招商、运营、管理。充分利用周边空置或过剩的旧厂房、仓库，以及闲置土地和违法建筑拆后空地等，通过调整或兼容土地用途，改建一批贴近居民生活、综合服务型的社区商业中心、邻里中心等便民服务设施。鼓励社区文化活动中心、图书馆、娱乐健身等场所适当延长开放时间，提高设施使用率。支持把闲置核酸检测亭改为便民服务点，规范提供生活服务。 将超市、便利店、菜市场等纳入保障民生、应急保供体系，将智能快件箱、快递末端综合服务场所等纳入公共服务基础设施，有条件的地方可对微利、公益性业态给予房租减免、资金补贴等支持。对于符合条件的企业，按照市场化、法治化原则做好金融服务。支持大型物业公司向民生领域延伸，拓展“物业+生活服务”。鼓励探索社区基金模式，规范运营管理，引导社会资本参与。按相关规定落实创业补贴、创业担保贷款等支持政策。 （三）优化营商环境。 优化企业开办服务，推广电子证照应用。除法律法规明确规定外，不得要求企业必须在某地登记注册，不得为企业跨区域经营或迁移设置障碍，不得以是否在当地设立法人主体为条件对企业差别对待。培育一批“名特优新”个体工商户，适当给予政策和资源支持，鼓励其做大做强，发挥引领示范作用。 探索党建引领、商协会管理、共享共治等社区治理模式，促进共建共管。在符合安全生产要求、城市管理规定且不影响周边居民生活的前提下，科学布局移动商业服务设施，规范“小修小补”等业态经营行为，提升治理精细化水平。 五、有关要求 （一） 统筹推动贯彻落实。 各省级部门要加强统筹，按照“到2025年在全国有条件的地级以上城市全面推开”的要求，进一步细化实施方案，按照《三年行动实施步骤安排》（附件1）抓好落实。已经作出部署的，要进一步对标对表、调整完善。尚未部署启动的，要抓紧制定实施方案。相关方案于2023年9月底前报商务部（流通发展司，下同）备案。 （二）扎实做好全国试点。 第一、二批试点城市所在省份，要按照《意见》要求，做好试点城市的培育、评估工作，评估结果及时报商务部复核。按照《商务部办公厅等10部门关于开展第二批城市一刻钟便民生活圈试点申报工作的通知》（商办流通函〔2022〕100号）确定的原则、条件、流程、内容等，继续开展第三批试点城市申报。各省、自治区推荐原则上不超过5个城市，直辖市、新疆生产建设兵团推荐原则上不超过3个区或师，计划单列市可直接申报。请各省级部门于2023年7月15日前，将申报材料（一式2份，含电子版）报商务部。 （三）发挥典型带动作用。 各试点城市要结合实际，兼顾统一性和灵活性，对照《一刻钟便民生活圈业态“有没有”分型表（试行）》（附件2）、《一刻钟便民生活圈服务“好不好”评价表（试行）》（附件3）、《一刻钟便民生活圈满意度调查表》（附件4），细化业态配置要求，按照“基础型、提升型、品质型”开展分级分类建设和评价。要发挥市场主体作用，调动各方力量参与，培育形成一批重点企业。请各省级部门于每年11月底前，将便民生活圈分级分类验收评价情况和便民生活圈典型社区案例（每个试点城市不超过2个）、重点企业案例（每个试点城市不超过5家）报商务部。 附件：1.三年行动实施步骤安排 2.一刻钟便民生活圈业态“有没有”分型表（试行） 3.一刻钟便民生活圈服务“好不好”评价表（试行） 4.一刻钟便民生活圈满意度调查表 附件1.doc 附件 2-4.xlsx
input_url: 20230714172924/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkgztz/202307/20230703421227.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230712191701/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkgztz/202307/20230703421227.shtml
date: 2023-07-15 00:00:00
translated_title: Circular of the General Office (Office) of the Ministry of Commerce and 13 Other Departments on the Issuance of the Three-Year Action Plan for Comprehensively Promoting the Construction of Urban Quarter-hour Convenient Living Circles (2023-2025)
translated_content: Provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the central government and municipalities with separate plans, Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps commerce, development and reform, civil affairs, finance, human resources and social security, natural resources, housing and urban-rural development, culture and tourism, health, market supervision, sports, postal administration, the Banking and Insurance Supervisory Bureau: In order to thoroughly implement the spirit of the 20th CPC National Congress and the Central Economic Work Conference, and to fulfill the requirements of the "Notice of the State Council on the Issuance of  The Ministry of Commerce and other 13 departments have formulated the Three-Year Action Plan for Comprehensively Promoting the Construction of Urban Quarter-hour Convenient Living Area (2023-2025). Hereby issued to you, please carefully implement in accordance with the actual situation. General Office of the Ministry of Commerce General Office of the National Development and Reform Commission General Office of the Ministry of Civil Affairs General Office of the Ministry of Finance General Office of the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security General Office of the Ministry of Natural Resources General Office of the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development General Office of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism General Office of the National Health Commission General Office of the General Administration of Market Regulation General Office of the General Administration of Financial Supervision General Office of the General Administration of Sports General Office of the State Postal Administration Office of the State Postal Administration July 11, 2023 Three-Year Action Plan for the Construction of Urban Quarter-Office Living Area (2023-2025) In order to deeply implement the spirit of the 20th CPC National Congress and the Central Economic Work Conference, and to realize the "Notice of the General Office of the State Council on Issuing the "14th Five-Year Plan for the Construction of Urban and Rural Community Service System" (Guo Ban Fa [2021] No. 56), the "Notice of the 12 Departments of the Ministry of Commerce and Other Departments on Opinions on Promoting the Construction of Quarter-hour Convenient Living Area in Cities" (Circulation Letter [2021] No. 176, hereinafter referred to as the "Opinions") and other documents, to comprehensively promote the construction of quarter-hour convenient living area in cities, and to formulate this action plan. First, the general idea of Xi Jinping new era of socialism with Chinese characteristics as a guide, the practice of people-centered development thinking, adhere to the "ask the people, ask the people", "what is missing, what to make up for" "city-specific policy, A circle of a policy" principle, in accordance with the "pilot-driven, typical lead, the full rollout" path, focusing on making up for the basic security type of business, the development of quality enhancement type of business, optimize the layout of community commercial outlets, improve the community consumption conditions, innovative community consumption scenarios, improve the quality of life of the residents, will be the The one-minute convenient living circle has become an important carrier for safeguarding and improving people's livelihood and restoring and expanding consumption. In accordance with the overall goal of selecting pilots every year during the "14th Five-Year Plan" period and building "a hundred cities and a thousand circles" as specified in the Opinions and other documents, the construction of one-minute convenience living circles will be comprehensively promoted in cities above the prefecture level that are in a position to do so, and a number of one-minute convenience living circles will be formed by 2025. To promote the construction of various types of quarter-hour convenient living circles, form a batch of convenient living circles with reasonable layout, complete business forms, perfect functions, high-quality services, intelligent and efficient, fast and convenient, standardized and orderly, and harmonious business and living conditions; the level of service facilitation, standardization, intelligence and quality will be further improved; the supporting role in restoring and expanding consumption will be more obvious; and the comprehensive satisfaction rate of the residents will reach more than 90%. Third, the focus of implementation (a) systematic planning and design, optimize the layout of community business. Adhere to the needs of the people and top-level design, innovative ways of working, will be a quarter-hour convenient living area into the streets and communities of the residents of the deliberative consultation mechanism, to find out "what is there, what is missing", and study "what to make up for, how to make up for". Relevant cities should combine population distribution, consumption habits, etc., and scientifically prepare a general plan for the construction of one-minute convenience living circles and various living circle programs (hereinafter referred to as the "1+N" program), tailored to the local conditions, one circle, one policy, and turn the residents' demand list into a list of projects. Promote the community planner system, support designers to enter the community, strengthen professional guidance, rationalize the layout of commercial outlets, and promote the linkage of commercial facilities and public facilities, and the coordination of commercial culture and consumption habits. (ii) Improving consumption conditions and enriching residents' consumption patterns. At residents' "doorsteps" (within 5-10 minutes' walking distance), priority has been given to the allocation of shopping, catering, housekeeping, express delivery, maintenance and other basic security businesses, and the introduction of intelligent retail terminals to make consumption more convenient. In the residents' "home neighborhood" (within 15 minutes' walking distance), quality-enhancing businesses such as culture, entertainment, leisure, socializing, recreation and fitness will be developed according to local conditions, so that consumption will be more comfortable. Developing "one store, one morning". Support the development of various types of market players with special features and diversification, and promote branded convenience store chains (community supermarkets) into the community, carrying convenient services such as withholding and payment, collection and distribution, printing and copying, and improving the degree of convenience. Taking breakfast stores, snack stores, "convenience stores + breakfast service" and "Internet + breakfast service" as the main bodies, the company has built a multi-level breakfast supply system, increased the density of outlets, enriched breakfast varieties, and ensured that residents "eat well! ". Make up " a dish a repair ". Support the vegetable market (vegetable store) standardization, intelligent transformation, expanding the service industry, improve the environment, health and quality, and promote the assured consumption, beneficial consumption. The standardized and orderly development of community workshops integrating shoe repair, key cutting, and other "small repairs and small fixes", with clearly marked prices, provides affordable maintenance services. Services for the "old and the young". Encourage the construction and renovation of community aged-care service facilities in accordance with the standards for ageing, and support aged-care institutions to provide community aged-care services using ancillary facilities. Explore the development of community canteens and establish a network of meal assistance services for the elderly. Encourage the establishment of community nursing stations to provide home-based medical care services for disabled, handicapped, elderly and chronically ill older persons with limited mobility. Domestic helpers and caregivers are encouraged to enter the community to expand home-based elderly care services, such as life care, health management, rehabilitation and nursing care, and spiritual comfort. All types of consumer venues should retain traditional payment methods such as cash and bank cards, as well as face-to-face manual services, and guide the establishment of counters and experience stores for the elderly, mothers and children. Community commercial centers and other places are encouraged to build mother and baby facilities and hang guidance signs, develop embedded and standardized childcare institutions and childcare spots, and provide affordable services such as full-day care, half-day care, temporary care and hourly care. (C) Innovating consumption scenes and enhancing diversified consumption experiences. Transforming traditional commercial carriers. Guide traditional shopping malls adjacent to residential areas to transform into community commercial centers, expanding service functions such as specialty restaurants, lifestyle retail, culture and leisure, children's entertainment, sports and fitness, and community canteens. Developing new business models. Support the development of instant retail models that integrate online and offline (platform ordering + delivery at the nearest store, ordering at the nearest store + instant delivery), empowering physical stores and expanding the service radius. Support net vegetables into the community, into the supermarket, the development of "central kitchen + cold chain + catering" mode, to enhance the quality of prepared food products. Stimulate the vitality of service consumption. Encourage gyms, swimming pools, multi-functional stadiums, health care and physiotherapy stores to enter the community, and promote healthy consumption. Encourage communities to regulate the development of neighborhood festivals, food festivals, group-buying festivals, home appliances and home services and other consumer activities, and prosperity of community business. Promote integration and synergistic development. Promote the integration of the quarter-hour convenient living circle with the circle of elderly care, cultural and leisure circle, health and fitness circle, financial services circle, express service circle, etc., to create a diversified, multi-level consumption scene. (D) Promote technology empowerment and enhance the level of wisdom and convenience. Promote advanced technology. Encourage the use of Internet of Things, cloud computing, big data, artificial intelligence and other technologies to promote the digitization of commodities, stores, members and supply chains, improve service quality and management efficiency, and reduce comprehensive costs. Develop smart stores, shared bookstores, smart express boxes and other forms of business to provide on-site interaction, contactless transactions, intelligent settlement, self-service vending and other services to enhance the digital experience. Build a supply and demand docking platform. Construct a quarter-hour convenient living circle intelligent service platform, integrate merchant resources, and realize online and offline interaction. Utilize big data to carry out monitoring and analysis, accurately build outlets, expand service functions, and tap consumption potential. Promote the quarter-hour convenience living circle outlets dynamic map, "small repairs" convenience map, guide more points "into the map", so that residents can "find". (v) Promoting employment and entrepreneurship and raising the income of community residents. We will facilitate employment in the community and create a livable and workable environment for residents. We will support freelancers in flexible employment, telecommuting and part-time employment, and engage in instant retail, catering services, online training and other businesses derived from the platform. Support entrepreneurial employment for college graduates, engaging in creative economy, personalized and customized cultural business and other characteristic businesses, and innovating online stores, specialty stores and boutiques. Prioritize recommending low-threshold, guaranteed and caring positions for people with disabilities and other employment difficulties to serve community residents. Respect the wishes of retirees, give full play to their expertise in the fields of culture and art, professional and technical expertise, and encourage participation in voluntary service activities within their means to provide services for retirees with re-employment needs. Fourth, safeguard measures (a) strengthen organizational leadership. A quarter of an hour convenient living circle construction is related to the people's well-being, people's livelihood, not only to enhance the functional quality of the city, restoration and expansion of consumption of powerful initiatives, but also to practice business for the people, to solve the masses "urgent, difficult and worrying hope" of the people's livelihood projects. Localities should attach great importance to strengthening the organization, coordination and promotion. Encourage the implementation of the mayor (district mayor) is responsible for the system, the scientific establishment of the work system, policy system, evaluation system, mobilize the strength of all parties to explore the formation of long-term mechanism. (ii) Strengthen the policy guarantee. Strengthen departmental coordination, and link the construction of the quarter-hour convenient living circle with the construction of urban and rural community service systems, urban renewal, transformation of old urban neighborhoods, planning and construction of 15-minute community living circles, pilot construction of complete communities, and the activities of the "National Ball in the Community" and "National Ball in the Park". activities and other work in conjunction with the same planning, selection and promotion, to strengthen the integration of policies, the formation of synergies. Releasing various types of business housing resources, accelerating the rental and transfer, transformation and development, and supporting the introduction of specialized operators, unified investment, operation and management. Make full use of vacant or surplus old factories and warehouses in the vicinity, as well as idle land and vacant land after demolition of illegal buildings, etc., and convert a number of community commercial centers, neighborhood centers and other people's service facilities close to residents' lives and of an integrated service type, through adjusting or compatible land use. Encourage community cultural activity centers, libraries, recreation and fitness venues to appropriately extend their opening hours and increase the utilization rate of their facilities. Supporting the conversion of unused nucleic acid testing kiosks into people's service points to standardize the provision of life services. Supermarkets, convenience stores, vegetable markets, etc. into the protection of people's livelihood, emergency supply system, intelligent express boxes, express end integrated service places, etc. into the public service infrastructure, conditional places can be micro-benefit, public welfare business to give rent reductions, capital subsidies and other support. For qualified enterprises, in accordance with the principles of marketization and the rule of law to do a good job of financial services. Support large property companies to extend to the livelihood of the people, expanding the "property + life services". Encourage the exploration of community fund model, standardize operation and management, and guide the participation of social capital. According to the relevant provisions of the implementation of entrepreneurial subsidies, entrepreneurial loans and other support policies. (III) Optimize the business environment. Optimize business start-up services and promote the application of electronic certificates. Except as expressly provided by laws and regulations, enterprises shall not be required to register in a certain place, shall not set up obstacles to cross-regional operation or relocation of enterprises, and shall not treat enterprises differently on the condition of whether or not they have set up a legal entity in the local area. Cultivate a number of "famous, high-quality and new" individual industrial and commercial enterprises, and provide appropriate policy and resource support to encourage them to grow bigger and stronger, and play a leading and exemplary role. Explore community governance modes such as party building, business association management, and shared governance, and promote co-construction and co-management. In line with the requirements of production safety, urban management and does not affect the lives of the surrounding residents under the premise of scientific layout of mobile commercial service facilities, regulate the "small repairs" and other forms of business behavior, enhance the level of governance refinement. V. Requirements (a) integrated promotion and implementation. Provincial departments to strengthen coordination, in accordance with the "to 2025 in the country's conditional cities above prefecture level to fully promote" requirements, further refine the implementation of the program, in accordance with the "three-year action to implement the step-by-step arrangements" (Annex 1) to grasp the implementation. Deployment has been made, to further benchmarking, adjustment and improvement. Where deployment has not yet been initiated, the implementation program should be formulated urgently. The relevant program by the end of September 2023 to the Ministry of Commerce (Circulation Development Division, the same below) for the record. (B) do a solid job of the national pilot. The first and second batch of pilot cities in the provinces, in accordance with the "Opinions" requirements, to do a good job of cultivating the pilot cities, assessment work, assessment results reported to the Ministry of Commerce in a timely manner for review. In accordance with the "General Office of the Ministry of Commerce and other 10 departments on the second batch of urban quarter-hour convenience living circle pilot declaration notice" (Business Office Circulation letter [2022] No. 100) to determine the principles, conditions, processes, content, etc., continue to carry out the third batch of pilot cities to declare. Provinces and autonomous regions recommend no more than five cities in principle, municipalities directly under the Central Government, Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps recommend no more than three districts or divisions in principle, and municipalities listed on the plan can directly declare. Please provincial departments in July 15, 2023, will be declared materials (2 copies, including electronic version) reported to the Ministry of Commerce. (C) play a typical driving role. Pilot cities should take into account the actual situation, take into account the unity and flexibility, and compare the "Quarter-hour Convenient Living Circle Industry "There is no" typology table (Trial)" (Annex 2), "Quarter-hour Convenient Living Circle Service "Good or bad" Evaluation Table (Trial)" (Annex 3) (Annex 2), "Quarter-hour Convenient Living Area Service "OK" Evaluation Form (Trial)" (Annex 3), "Quarter-hour Convenient Living Area Satisfaction Questionnaire" (Annex 4), refinement of the configuration requirements of the industry, in accordance with the "basic, enhancement, quality" to carry out the construction of hierarchical classification and evaluation. To play the role of the market, mobilize the participation of all parties to cultivate the formation of a number of key enterprises. Provincial departments are requested to report to the Ministry of Commerce by the end of November each year the acceptance and evaluation of the graded classification of convenient living areas and typical community cases of convenient living areas (no more than two cases in each pilot city) and key enterprise cases (no more than five cases in each pilot city). Annexes: 1. Arrangement of steps for the implementation of the three-year action 2. "There is no" typing table for the quarter-hour convenient living area business (for trial use) 3. "How good" evaluation table for the quarter-hour convenient living area service (for trial use) 4. Satisfaction questionnaire for the quarter-hour convenient living area Annex 1 .doc Annex 2-4.xlsx
english_summary: The Three-Year Action Plan for Comprehensively Promoting the Construction of Urban and Urban Quarter-Hour Living Area (2023-2025) is a document issued by the General Office of the Commerce Ministry and 13 other departments in China. The plan aims to thoroughly implement the spirit of the 20th CPC National Congress and the Central Economic Work Conference, and to fulfill the requirements of the "Notice of the State Council on Issuing the Three-Year Action Plan for the Construction of Urban and Rural Community Service System" and other documents. The plan includes  systemic planning and design, optimizing the layout of community business, enhancing consumption conditions and enriching residents' consumption patterns, innovating consumption scenes and enhancing diversified consumption experiences, promoting technology empowerment and enhancing the level of wisdom and convenience, and promoting employment and entrepreneurship and raising the income of community residents. The plan also includes
