html: nan
title: 商务部公告2024年第1号 关于对原产于欧盟的进口装入200升以下容器的蒸馏葡萄酒制得的烈性酒进行反倾销立案调查的公告
resulting_text: 中华人民共和国商务部（以下简称商务部）于2023年11月30日收到中国酒业协会（以下称申请人）代表国内白兰地产业正式提交的反倾销调查申请，申请人请求对原产于欧盟的进口装入200升以下容器的蒸馏葡萄酒制得的烈性酒（以下称相关白兰地）进行反倾销调查。商务部依据《中华人民共和国反倾销条例》有关规定，对申请人的资格、申请调查产品的有关情况、中国同类产品的有关情况、申请调查产品对国内产业的影响、申请调查国家（地区）的有关情况等进行了审查。 根据申请人提供的证据和商务部的初步审查，申请人相关白兰地的合计产量在2019年、2020年、2021年、2022年和2023年上半年均占同期中国同类产品总产量的主要部分，符合《中华人民共和国反倾销条例》第十一条和第十三条有关国内产业提出反倾销调查申请的规定。同时，申请书中包含了《中华人民共和国反倾销条例》第十四条、第十五条规定的反倾销调查立案所要求的内容及有关证据。 根据上述审查结果，依据《中华人民共和国反倾销条例》第十六条的规定，商务部决定自2024年1月5日起对原产于欧盟的进口相关白兰地进行反倾销立案调查。现将有关事项公告如下： 一、立案调查及调查期 自本公告发布之日起，商务部对原产于欧盟的进口相关白兰地进行反倾销立案调查，本次调查确定的倾销调查期为2022年10月1日至2023年9月30日，产业损害调查期为2019年1月1日至2023年9月30日。 二、被调查产品及调查范围 调查范围：原产于欧盟的进口装入200升以下容器的蒸馏葡萄酒制得的烈性酒。 被调查产品名称：装入200升以下容器的蒸馏葡萄酒制得的烈性酒（通常称白兰地）。 英文名称：Spirits obtained by distilling grape wine in containers holding less than 200 liters（usually called Brandy）。 产品描述：以葡萄、葡萄汁（浆）、葡萄皮渣、葡萄酒等为原料制得的烈性酒。 主要用途：主要作为饮料酒供人消费。 该产品归在《中华人民共和国进出口税则》：22082000。该税则号项下装入200升及以上容器的蒸馏葡萄酒制得的烈性酒不在本次调查范围之内。 三、登记参加调查 利害关系方应于本公告发布之日起20天内，向商务部贸易救济调查局登记参加本次反倾销调查。参加调查的利害关系方应根据《登记参加调查的参考格式》提供基本身份信息、向中国出口或进口本案被调查产品的数量及金额、生产和销售同类产品的数量及金额以及关联情况等说明材料。《登记参加调查的参考格式》可在商务部网站贸易救济调查局子网站下载。 利害关系方登记参加本次反倾销调查，应通过“贸易救济调查信息化平台”（https://etrb.mofcom.gov.cn）提交电子版本，并根据商务部的要求，同时提交书面版本。电子版本和书面版本内容应相同，格式应保持一致。 本公告所称的利害关系方是指《中华人民共和国反倾销条例》第十九条规定的个人和组织。 四、查阅公开信息 利害关系方可在商务部网站贸易救济调查局子网站下载或到商务部贸易救济公开信息查阅室（电话：0086-10-65197878）查找、阅览、抄录并复印本案申请人提交的申请书的非保密文本。调查过程中，利害关系方可通过商务部网站贸易救济调查局子网站查询案件公开信息，或到商务部贸易救济公开信息查阅室查找、阅览、抄录并复印案件公开信息。 五、对立案的评论 利害关系方对本次调查的产品范围及申请人资格、被调查国家（地区）及其他相关问题如需发表评论，可于本公告发布之日起20天内将书面意见提交至商务部贸易救济调查局。 六、调查方式 根据《中华人民共和国反倾销条例》第二十条的规定，商务部可以采用问卷、抽样、听证会、现场核查等方式向有关利害关系方了解情况，进行调查。 为获得本案调查所需要的信息，商务部通常在本公告规定的登记参加调查截止之日起10个工作日内向利害关系方发布调查问卷。利害关系方可以从商务部网站贸易救济调查局子网站下载调查问卷。 《相关白兰地反倾销案国外出口商或生产商调查问卷》询问信息包括公司的结构和运作、被调查产品、对中国的出口销售、国内销售、经营和财务等相关信息、生产成本和相关费用、估算的倾销幅度及核对单等内容。《相关白兰地反倾销案国内生产者调查问卷》询问信息包括公司基本情况、国内同类产品情况、经营和相关信息、财务和相关信息、其他需要说明的问题等内容。《相关白兰地反倾销案国内进口商调查问卷》询问信息包括公司基本情况、被调查产品贸易和相关信息等内容。 利害关系方应在规定时间内提交完整、准确的答卷。答卷应当包括调查问卷所要求的全部信息。 七、信息的提交和处理 利害关系方在调查过程中提交评论意见、答卷等，应通过“贸易救济调查信息化平台”（https://etrb.mofcom.gov.cn）提交电子版本，并根据商务部的要求，同时提交书面版本。电子版本和书面版本内容应相同，格式应保持一致。 利害关系方向商务部提交的信息如需保密，可向商务部提出对相关信息进行保密处理的请求并说明理由。如商务部同意其请求，申请保密的利害关系方应当同时提供该保密信息的非保密概要。非保密概要应当包含充分的有意义的信息，以使其他利害关系方对保密信息能有合理的理解。如不能提供非保密概要，应说明理由。如利害关系方提交的信息未说明需要保密，商务部将视该信息为公开信息。 八、不合作的后果 根据《中华人民共和国反倾销条例》第二十一条的规定，商务部进行调查时，利害关系方应当如实反映情况，提供有关资料。利害关系方不如实反映情况、提供有关资料的，或者没有在合理时间内提供必要信息的，或者以其他方式严重妨碍调查的，商务部可以根据已经获得的事实和可获得的最佳信息作出裁定。 九、调查期限 本次调查自2024年1月5日起开始，通常应在2025年1月5日前结束调查，特殊情况下可延长6个月。 十、商务部联系方式 地址：中国北京市东长安街2号 邮编：100731 商务部贸易救济调查局 电话：0086-10-65198182 65198760 传真：0086-10-65198172 相关网站：	商务部网站贸易救济调查局子网站（网址为trb.mofcom.gov.cn） 商务部 2024年1月5日 附件1：国内产业反倾销调查申请书（公开文本）.pdf 附件2：国内产业反倾销调查申请书附件（公开文本）.pdf 附件3：反倾销案登记参加调查参考格式.docx
input_url: 20240108012041/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202401/20240103464791.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20240109120904/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202401/20240103464791.shtml
date: 2024-01-08 00:00:00
translated_title: MOFCOM Announcement No. 1 of 2024 Announcement on the Filing of Anti-Dumping Investigation on Imports of Spirits Made from Distilled Wine in Containers of Less Than 200 Liters Originating in the European Union
translated_content: The Ministry of Commerce of the People's Republic of China (hereinafter referred to as MOFCOM) received an application for anti-dumping investigation formally submitted by the China Wine Industry Association (hereinafter referred to as the Applicant) on behalf of the domestic brandy industry on November 30, 2023, in which the Applicant requested for an anti-dumping investigation of the imported spirits made from distilled wines into containers of less than 200 liters (hereinafter referred to as the relevant brandy) originating in the European Union (EU). The Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM), in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Anti-Dumping Regulations of the People's Republic of China (ADR), examined the applicant's qualifications, the relevant circumstances of the products under application for investigation, the relevant circumstances of similar products in China, the impact of the products under application for investigation on the domestic industry, and the relevant circumstances of the country (region) under application for investigation. According to the evidence provided by the applicant and the preliminary review by MOFCOM, the combined production of the applicant's relevant brandy in 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022 and the first half of 2023 accounted for a major part of the total production of similar products in China during the same period, which is in line with the provisions of Article 11 and Article 13 of the Regulations of the People's Republic of China on Antidumping relating to the filing of applications by domestic industries for anti-dumping investigation. At the same time, the application contained the contents and relevant evidence required for the filing of an anti-dumping investigation case under Articles 14 and 15 of the Anti-Dumping Regulations of the People's Republic of China. Based on the above examination results and in accordance with the provisions of Article 16 of the Anti-Dumping Regulations of the People's Republic of China, the Ministry of Commerce decides to file an anti-dumping investigation from January 5, 2024 on the imports of relevant brandy originating from the EU. The relevant matters are hereby announced as follows: I. Filing Investigation and Investigation Period Since the date of this announcement, the Ministry of Commerce has filed a case for anti-dumping investigation on imports of brandy originating from the EU, and the period of dumping investigation is from October 1, 2022 to September 30, 2023, and the period of industrial damage investigation is from January 1, 2019 to September 30, 2023 for the investigation of industrial damage. II. Investigated Products and Scope of Investigation Scope of Investigation: imported spirits made from distilled wines into containers of less than 200 liters originating in the EU. Name of product under investigation: Spirits obtained by distilling wine into containers of less than 200 liters (usually called brandy). English name: Spirits obtained by distilling grape wine in containers holding less than 200 liters (usually called Brandy). Product Description: Spirits obtained by distilling grape wine in containers holding less than 200 liters (usually called Brandy). Main Uses: Mainly used as beverage alcohol for human consumption. This product is classified under the Import and Export Tariff Code of the People's Republic of China: 22082000. Spirits made from distilled wine in containers of 200 liters and above under this tariff number are not included in the scope of this survey. Registration for the Investigation Stakeholders should register for the anti-dumping investigation with the Trade Remedy Bureau of the Ministry of Commerce within 20 days from the date of this announcement. Stakeholders participating in the investigation shall, according to the Reference Form for Registration for Participation in the Investigation, provide basic identification information, the quantity and amount of products exported or imported into China, the quantity and amount of similar products produced and sold, as well as explanatory materials such as the related situation, etc. The "Reference Form for Registration for Participation in the Investigation" shall be used as the basis for the registration. The Reference Form for Registration to Participate in the Investigation can be downloaded from the sub-site of the Trade Remedy Investigation Bureau on the website of the Ministry of Commerce. Stakeholders registering to participate in the anti-dumping investigation shall submit an electronic version through the "Trade Remedy Investigation Informationization Platform" (https://etrb.mofcom.gov.cn) and a written version at the same time according to the requirements of the Ministry of Commerce. The contents of the electronic version and the written version shall be the same and the format shall be consistent. Stakeholders referred to in this Notice refer to the individuals and organizations stipulated in Article 19 of the Anti-Dumping Regulations of the People's Republic of China. Interested parties may download the information from the sub-site of Trade Remedy Investigation Bureau on the website of the Ministry of Commerce or go to the Trade Remedy Public Information Inspection Room of the Ministry of Commerce (Tel: 0086-10-65197878) to find, read, copy and photocopy the non-confidential text of the application submitted by the applicant in this case. During the process of investigation, interested parties may inquire the public information of the case through the sub-site of the Trade Remedy Investigation Bureau on the website of the Ministry of Commerce, or go to the Trade Remedy Public Information Inspection Room of the Ministry of Commerce to find, read, transcribe and copy the public information of the case. V. Comments on the Case If interested parties wish to comment on the scope of the products under investigation, the eligibility of the applicant, the country (region) under investigation and other related issues, they may submit their written comments to the Trade Remedy Bureau of the Ministry of Commerce within 20 days from the date of publication of this announcement. Sixth, the investigation method According to the "People's Republic of China Anti-Dumping Regulations" Article 20 of the provisions of the Ministry of Commerce can be used questionnaires, sampling, hearings, on-site verification and other ways to the relevant stakeholders to understand the situation and carry out investigations. In order to obtain the information required for the investigation of this case, MOFCOM usually releases the questionnaire to the stakeholders within 10 working days from the closing date of the registration for participation in the investigation as stipulated in this announcement. Stakeholders can download the questionnaire from the sub-site of the Trade Remedies Investigation Bureau on MOFCOM's website. The Questionnaire for Foreign Exporters or Producers in Relevant Brandy Anti-Dumping Cases asks for information on the structure and operation of the company, the product under investigation, export sales to China, domestic sales, operational and financial information, production costs and related expenses, estimated dumping margins and checklists. The Questionnaire for Domestic Producers in the Relevant Brandy Anti-Dumping Case inquires about information including the basic situation of the company, the situation of similar products in the country, operation and related information, financial and related information, and other issues that need to be clarified. Questionnaire for Domestic Importers of Relevant Brandy Anti-dumping Cases includes basic information of the company, trade and related information of the investigated products. Stakeholders shall submit complete and accurate answer sheets within the specified time. The answer sheet should include all the information required by the questionnaire. VII. Submission and Processing of Information Stakeholders shall submit comments and answer sheets in the course of the investigation through the "Trade Remedy Investigation Informatization Platform" (https://etrb.mofcom.gov.cn) to submit the electronic version, and submit the written version at the same time according to the requirements of the Ministry of Commerce. The content of the electronic version and the written version shall be the same and the format shall be consistent. If the information submitted by the interested party to the MOFCOM needs to be kept confidential, the interested party may make a request to the MOFCOM for confidential treatment of the relevant information and state the reasons. If MOFCOM agrees to the request, the stakeholder applying for confidentiality shall at the same time provide a non-confidential summary of the confidential information. The non-confidential summary should contain sufficient meaningful information to enable other stakeholders to have a reasonable understanding of the confidential information. If a non-confidential summary cannot be provided, a reason should be given. If a stakeholder submits information that does not indicate the need for confidentiality, MOFCOM will treat the information as public. VIII. Consequences of Non-cooperation According to Article 21 of the Regulations of the People's Republic of China on Anti-Dumping, when MOFCOM conducts an investigation, the interested party shall truthfully reflect the situation and provide relevant information. If the interested party fails to reflect the situation truthfully and provide relevant information, or fails to provide the necessary information within a reasonable period of time, or seriously obstructs the investigation in other ways, MOFCOM may make a ruling based on the facts already obtained and the best available information. IX. Duration of the Investigation The investigation has commenced since January 5, 2024, and the investigation should normally be concluded by January 5, 2025, with a six-month extension under special circumstances. X. Contact Information of the Ministry of Commerce Address: No. 2, East Chang'an Street, Beijing, China Zip Code: 100731 Trade Remedy Investigation Bureau, Ministry of Commerce Tel: 0086-10-65198182 65198760 Fax: 0086-10-65198172 Relevant Websites: Sub-website of Trade Remedy Investigation Bureau of the Ministry of Commerce's Website (at trb.mofcom.gov.cn) Ministry of Commerce January 5, 2024 Annex 1: Application for Antidumping Investigation on Domestic Industry (Open Text).pdf Annex 2: Annex to the Application for Antidumping Investigation on Domestic Industry (Open Text).pdf Annex 3: Reference Format for Registration of Participation in the Investigation of Antidumping Cases.docx
english_summary: The Ministry of Commerce of China has announced an investigation into distilled wine brandy originating in the European Union. The investigation was filed by the China Wine Industry Association on behalf of the domestic brandy industry, alleging that these imported spirits were being sold at artificially low prices in China. The investigation will look into the impact of the imported brandy on the domestic industry, and the relevant circumstances of the EU. The scope of the investigation covers imported brandy from the EU that is less than 200 liters in container size. Those who have an interest in the case can register to participate in the investigation and submit their written comments on the matter within 20 days from the date of publication of the announcement.
