html: nan
title: “棉纺消费季”工作标识发布
resulting_text: 为贯彻落实《商务部办公厅 工业和信息化部办公厅 供销合作总社办公厅关于组织开展“棉纺消费季”活动的通知》，办好“棉纺消费季”活动，现发布“棉纺消费季”工作标识。 各地参加“棉纺消费季”的活动组织方、参与主体，可按要求规范使用活动工作标识。 此工作标识以“棉花”为主要图形，以棉纺消费季的主题“共同织造美好生活”为文字。棉花图形真实、生动、饱满，传递出棉花绿色天然、健康且富有生命力的信号，体现出棉纺消费季主题精神。图形配以绿色外环，文字嵌入环形，象征着安全、守候。 商务部市场建设司 2023年4月19日 “棉纺消费季”工作标识使用要求 一、“棉纺消费季”工作标识由“棉花”标识标准图形（以下简称图形）和“共同织造美好生活”中文文字组成（以下简称文字）。 二、“棉纺消费季”工作标识属商务部所有，任何未经授权的单位或个人不得擅自使用。 三、“棉纺消费季”工作标识仅供配合商务部开展相关工作的活动组织方和活动参与方使用，任何单位或个人不得擅自变更工作标识或扩大使用范围。 四、活动组织方主要包括商务部授权或认可其参与工作的相关部门、协会、平台、媒体等相关单位，可统一使用“棉纺消费季”工作标识或文字，但不得单独使用图形。 五、活动参与方主要包括商务部授权或认可其参与工作的棉制纺织品服装产销企业。
input_url: 20230422030627/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202304/20230403405063.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230420055331/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202304/20230403405063.shtml
date: 2023-04-22 00:00:00
translated_title: "Cotton Spinning Consumption Season Logo Launched
translated_content: To implement the "General Office of the Ministry of Commerce General Office of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology General Office of the General Administration of Supply and Marketing Cooperation on the organization of the "Cotton Spinning Consumption Season" activities of the notice", to do a good job of "Cotton Spinning Consumption Season" activities, is now released "Cotton Spinning Consumption Season" work logo. Participate in the "Cotton Spinning Consumption Season" activities around the organizers, participants in the main body, according to the requirements of standardized use of activities work logo. This work logo to "cotton" as the main graphic, the theme of the cotton consumption season "weaving a better life" as the text. Cotton graphics real, vivid, full, conveying the cotton green, natural, healthy and full of vitality signals, reflecting the spirit of the theme of cotton textile consumption season. Graphics with a green outer ring, the text embedded in the ring, symbolizing security, waiting. Department of Commerce Market Construction April 19, 2023 "Cotton Spinning Consumption Season" logo requirements for the use of a "Cotton Spinning Consumption Season" logo consists of a "cotton" logo standard graphics (hereinafter referred to as graphics) and "cotton" logo standard graphics (hereinafter referred to as graphics) and "cotton" logo standard graphics (hereinafter referred to as graphics). (hereinafter referred to as graphics) and "weaving a better life" Chinese text (hereinafter referred to as text). Second, "Cotton Spinning Consumption Season" logo belongs to the Ministry of Commerce, any unauthorized unit or individual shall not be used without authorization. Third, "Cotton Spinning Consumption Season" logo is only with the Ministry of Commerce to carry out related work of the activity organizers and activities involved in the use of any unit or individual shall not change the logo or expand the scope of use. Fourth, the activities of the organizers, including the Ministry of Commerce authorized or recognized its participation in the work of the relevant departments, associations, platforms, media and other relevant units, can be unified to use "Cotton Spinning Consumption Season" logo or text, but may not be used alone graphic. Fifth, the activities of the participants mainly include the Ministry of Commerce authorized or recognized its participation in the work of cotton textile and apparel production and marketing enterprises.
english_summary: The "Cotton Spinning Consumption Season" logo has been launched to promote the "Cotton Spinning Consumption Season" activities. The logo consists of a "cotton" standard graphic and "weaving a better life" Chinese text. The logo belongs to the Ministry of Commerce and should only be used by authorized organizations and individuals. Participants in the "Cotton Spinning Consumption Season" activities, which include cotton textile and apparel production and marketing enterprises, may use the logo, but should not change it or expand its use. Any unauthorized use of the logo is prohibited.
