html: nan
title: 商务部办公厅关于进一步做好两用物项出口管制工作的通知
resulting_text: 各省、自治区、直辖市、计划单列市及新疆生产建设兵团商务主管部门： 为深入贯彻党的二十大精神，根据《中华人民共和国出口管制法》及有关行政法规、规章的规定，结合当前工作中发现的新情况，现就进一步做好两用物项出口管制工作通知如下： 一、坚持总体国家安全观，将维护国家安全贯穿出口管制工作各方面全过程 两用物项出口管制工作应当坚持以习近平新时代中国特色社会主义思想为指导，深入贯彻党的二十大精神，坚持总体国家安全观，统筹发展和安全，统筹开放和安全，加快完善现代化出口管制体系，提升出口管制治理效能，规范和促进合规贸易，防范和应对风险挑战，以新安全格局保障新发展格局，更好维护国家主权、安全、发展利益。 二、认真贯彻落实出口管制法律法规，准确把握出口管制范围 各省级商务主管部门要进一步提高政治站位，推进依法行政，充分认识出口管制工作对维护国家安全和利益的重要性，充分利用各种渠道和方式，加大宣传培训力度，引导辖区内的两用物项出口经营者认真学习并严格遵守出口管制相关法律、行政法规、规章和政策的规定，熟悉两用物项出口管制范围，准确判别拟出口的货物、技术和服务是否属于两用物项，以及是否属于《中华人民共和国出口管制法》第十二条第三款规定的应当向商务部申请许可的情形。对于确实无法判别的，出口经营者可以向商务部提出咨询。 三、严格履行许可程序，遵守最终用户和最终用途规定 各省级商务主管部门要继续做好辖区内的两用物项出口申请材料的转报工作，认真指导辖区内的两用物项出口经营者严格按照出口管制相关法律、行政法规、规章的规定，向商务部提交真实、完整、准确的两用物项出口申请材料。未经许可，出口经营者不得擅自出口两用物项，不得超出最终用户、最终用途等已批准的范围出口两用物项，不得出口禁止出口的物项。进口商、最终用户应当严格遵守最终用户和最终用途管理规定，不得违规改装、改变、转移相关物项用于非民用用途，不得擅自向任何第三方转让。确需改变最终用户或最终用途等已批准的许可范围的，应当依法向商务部提出申请。对于违反有关规定和要求的，商务部将依法予以处理和处罚。 四、建立健全内部合规制度，有效防范和化解贸易风险 各省级商务主管部门要积极推动辖区内的两用物项出口经营者，依据《商务部关于两用物项出口经营者建立出口管制内部合规机制的指导意见》，及时建立健全两用物项出口管制内部合规制度，充分发挥主体责任，对可能面临的出口管制风险进行全面评估，主动识别敏感用户、敏感用途等易发生违规风险的业务环节，提升对境外实体非法采购的警惕性，有效防范和化解贸易风险。及时提醒相关组织和个人不得为出口经营者从事两用物项出口管制违法行为提供代理、货运、寄递、报关、第三方电子商务交易平台和金融等服务。 五、实施通用许可等便利措施，便利和促进合规贸易 各省级商务主管部门要积极引导辖区内的两用物项出口经营者用足用好相关政策便利措施。对于建立两用物项出口管制内部合规制度且运行情况良好的出口经营者，商务部可以依照其申请，对特定两用物项出口适用通用许可等便利措施，鼓励扩大合规贸易。要充分利用电子政务平台，实现两用物项许可申请、审核、签发、通关等全流程电子化，优化政务服务，最大程度利企便民。 六、强化出口管制监督执法，严肃查处违法违规行为 商务部单独或会同相关部门开展常态化执法检查，适时开展专项执法行动，各省级商务主管部门要积极予以协助，有关组织和个人应当予以配合。对于发现有关行为存在违法风险的,商务部可以对有关组织和个人采取监管谈话、出具警示函等措施，经查实存在违法违规行为的，依法予以严肃处理和处罚。出口经营者积极配合调查，并主动采取补救措施的，商务部可依法酌情对其违法违规行为予以从轻处罚。对于两用物项出口管制清单所列管制物项及临时管制物项之外的货物、技术和服务，出口经营者发现或者接到商务部通知，相关出口可能存在危害国家安全和利益等风险的，应当立即停止出口，采取措施减轻或消除危害后果。确需出口的，应当依法向商务部申请许可。各省级商务主管部门要及时予以督促和指导。 七、加强组织落实，及时帮助解决企业诉求 各省级商务主管部门要高度重视，强化法治意识和服务意识，采取有力措施，保障相关工作顺利进行。要在引导辖区内的两用物项出口经营者尊法学法守法用法上下更大功夫，鼓励其用足用好相关政策便利措施，积极防范化解贸易风险。对于两用物项出口经营者反映的困难和问题，要主动了解、及时研究、尽力帮助解决，重大情况及时报商务部（安全与管制局）。 商务部办公厅 2023年2月12日
input_url: 20230214122123/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202302/20230203384654.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230214122218/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202302/20230203384654.shtml
date: 2023-02-15 00:00:00
translated_title: Circular of the General Office of the Ministry of Commerce on Further Improving Export Control of Dual-Use Items
translated_content: The competent departments of commerce of provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the central government, municipalities with separate plans and the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps: In order to thoroughly implement the spirit of the 20th National Congress of the CPC, and in accordance with the Export Control Law of the People's Republic of China and the provisions of the relevant administrative rules and regulations, and in light of the new situations found in the current work, we hereby notify the following on further improving the export control of dual-use items: First, adhere to the overall concept of national security, and maintain national security throughout all aspects of export control work. First, adhere to the overall concept of national security, safeguard national security throughout all aspects and processes of export control work Export control of dual-use items should adhere to the guidance of Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era, thoroughly implement the spirit of the 20th National Congress of the CPC, adhere to the overall concept of national security, integrate development and security, and integrate openness and security, accelerate the improvement of the modernization of the export control system, enhance the effectiveness of the governance of export control, regulate and promote compliant trade, guard against and cope with risks and challenges, and safeguard national security with a new security pattern. challenges, safeguard the new development pattern with the new security pattern, and better safeguard national sovereignty, security and development interests. Second, conscientiously implement the export control laws and regulations, and accurately grasp the scope of export control The competent provincial departments in charge of commerce should further raise the political position, promote administration in accordance with the law, and fully understand the importance of export control work to safeguard national security and interests, make full use of all kinds of channels and ways to increase publicity and training, and guide the dual-use items export operators under their jurisdiction to seriously study and strictly comply with the relevant laws, administrative rules, regulations, policies and regulations on export control, and to ensure the effective implementation of the export control system. Guiding the export operators under the jurisdiction to study and strictly abide by the provisions of laws, administrative regulations, rules and policies related to export control, familiarize with the scope of export control of dual-use items, and accurately determine whether the goods, technologies and services to be exported belong to dual-use items, and whether they belong to the situations that should apply for licenses from the Ministry of Commerce as stipulated in Article 12(3) of the Export Control Law of the People's Republic of China. If it is really impossible to distinguish, the exporting operator may consult with the Ministry of Commerce. Third, the strict implementation of licensing procedures, compliance with end-user and end-use provisions of the provincial departments in charge of commerce to continue to do a good job within the jurisdiction of the dual-use items export applications for the transfer of materials, and seriously guide the jurisdiction of the dual-use items export operators strictly in accordance with the provisions of the relevant laws, administrative rules and regulations of export control, to the Ministry of Commerce to submit a true, complete and accurate dual-use items export application materials. Without authorization, export operators shall not export dual-use items without authorization, shall not export dual-use items beyond the approved scope of end-users, end-uses, etc., and shall not export prohibited items. Importers and end-users shall strictly abide by the end-user and end-use management regulations, and shall not illegally modify, change or transfer the relevant items for non-civilian use, and shall not transfer them to any third party without authorization. If it is necessary to change the end-user or end-use of the approved scope of the license, it should apply to the Ministry of Commerce in accordance with the law. The Ministry of Commerce will deal with and penalize any violation of the relevant regulations and requirements in accordance with the law. Establish and improve the internal compliance system to effectively prevent and resolve trade risks The competent provincial departments in charge of commerce shall actively promote the export operators of dual-use items under their jurisdictions to establish and improve the internal compliance system for export control of dual-use items in a timely manner in accordance with the "Guidance of the Ministry of Commerce on the Establishment of Internal Compliance Mechanisms for Export Control of Dual-Use Items by the Export Operators of Dual-Use Items", and give full play to the main responsibility to comprehensively assess and proactively identify sensitive users, and to take the initiative in identifying and resolving the risks of export control which the export operators may be exposed to. Carry out a comprehensive assessment, proactively identify sensitive users, sensitive uses and other business segments prone to the risk of non-compliance, enhance vigilance against illegal procurement by overseas entities, and effectively prevent and resolve trade risks. Timely remind relevant organizations and individuals not to provide services such as agents, freight forwarding, shipping, customs clearance, third-party e-commerce trading platforms and finance for export operators engaging in illegal export control of dual-use items. Fifth, the implementation of the General License and other facilitation measures to facilitate and promote trade compliance Provincial departments in charge of commerce should actively guide the jurisdiction of the dual-use items export operators to make full use of the relevant policy facilitation measures. For the establishment of dual-use items export control internal compliance system and the operation of good export operators, the Ministry of Commerce can be in accordance with its application, the export of specific dual-use items to apply general license and other facilitation measures to encourage the expansion of compliant trade. To make full use of the e-government platform, dual-use items permit application, audit, issuance, customs clearance and other full-process electronic, optimize government services, maximize the convenience of enterprises and people. Sixth, strengthen export control supervision and law enforcement, and seriously investigate and deal with violations of the law The Ministry of Commerce alone or in conjunction with relevant departments to carry out regular law enforcement inspections, and special enforcement actions at the appropriate time, the competent provincial departments in charge of commerce should be actively assisted, and the relevant organizations and individuals should be coordinated. For the discovery of the risk of violations of law, the Ministry of Commerce can take the relevant organizations and individuals to supervise the conversation, the issuance of a warning letter and other measures, and if it is found that there are violations of law and regulations, they will be seriously dealt with and punished according to the law. If the export operator actively cooperates with the investigation and takes the initiative to take remedial measures, the Ministry of Commerce may, in accordance with the law, take discretionary measures to minimize the penalties for the violation of the law. For goods, technologies and services other than the controlled items and temporary controlled items listed in the Export Control List of Dual-use Items, the export operator shall immediately stop exporting and take measures to mitigate or eliminate the harmful consequences if it finds or receives notification from the Ministry of Commerce that the relevant export may jeopardize the national security and interests of the country. If the export is necessary, it shall apply for a license from the Ministry of Commerce in accordance with the law. Provincial departments in charge of commerce should be supervised and guided in a timely manner. VII, strengthen the organization and implementation, and timely help to solve the enterprise's claims The provincial departments in charge of commerce should attach great importance to strengthening the awareness of the rule of law and the sense of service, and take strong measures to ensure the smooth progress of the relevant work. To guide the jurisdiction of the dual-use items export operators to respect the law and abide by the law and use of greater efforts to encourage the full use of relevant policies and facilitation measures, and actively prevent and resolve trade risks. For the difficulties and problems reflected by the dual-use items export operators, they should take the initiative to understand, study and try their best to help solve the problems, and report the significant situations to the Ministry of Commerce (Security and Control Bureau) in time. General Office of the Ministry of Commerce February 12, 2023
english_summary: The General Office of the Ministry of Commerce issued a circular on February 12, 2023, to improve the export control of dual-use items. The circular emphasizes the importance of integrating national security with the development and openness of the economy, and the need to strengthen the modernization of the export control system, the governance of export control, and regulate compliance trade. The circular also emphasizes the need to strictly implement the export control laws and regulations, accurately grasp the scope of export control, and strictly follow the licensing procedures. Furthermore, it encourages the establishment of internal compliance systems by export operators to effectively prevent and resolve trade risks, and promotes the implementation of general license and other facilitation measures to encourage compliant trade. Finally, the circular stresses the need to strengthen export control supervision and law enforcement, seriously investigate and deal with violations of the law, and increase the organization and implementation of measures to help solve enterprise claims.
