html: nan
title: 商务部关于公布首批全国示范智慧商圈、 全国示范智慧商店名单的通知
resulting_text: 各省、自治区、直辖市及计划单列市 、 新疆生产建设兵团商务 主管 部门： 为 全面贯彻党的二十大精神， 坚决落实 党中央、国务院关于 实施扩大内需战略、建设高标准市场体系和 引领新型消费加快发展的系列 部署， 经 地方培育、自主申报 、 第三方评审和社会公示， 商务部决定将北京市三里屯商圈等 12 个商圈和三里屯太古里南区等 16 个商店确认为“全国示范智慧商圈”和“全国示范智慧商店”（以下简称示范商圈、示范商店，名单见附件）。 现将 有关事项 通知如下： 一、切实发挥带动作用 各 示范商圈、 示范 商店要珍视荣誉， 把握 新形势新任务新要求， 进一步加强探索和创新， 更好适应疫情防控优化调整要求，持续促进消费恢复和扩大。 各示范商圈 要积极 顺应消费需求变化 ，不断提高商业质量，健全面向消费者、商业企业、运营机构和 政府部门的智慧 应用 ， 打造 线上线下一体化 的智慧 消费 生态 体系 ， 改善居民购物休闲体验， 促进消费提质扩容。 各示范商店 要 充分运用现代信息技术， 持续优化智慧设施、智慧服务、智慧场景和智慧管理， 引领行业创新转型。 二、提升城市商业能级 各地商务主管部门 要将发展智慧商圈、智慧商店与步行街改造提升、打造城市一刻钟便民生活圈等工作有机结合， 持续深化城市商业提升行动， 加快构建分层分类的城市商业布局，更好满足人民美好生活需要。 要 强化 步行街的提升引领作用 ，推动现有步行街设施改造和业态升级， 打造城市商业发展标杆。 要 突出 城市 一刻钟便民生活圈的保障作用 ，扩大便民生活圈覆盖服务范围，切实便利百姓日常生活。 要 发挥 智慧商圈、智慧商店的平台作用 ， 发展新业态、新模式、新场景， 满足居民 品质化、 多样化消费需求。 三、持续推进示范创建 各地商务主管部门 要借鉴全国示范 商圈、示范商店的 典型做法，统筹推进相关工作，推动传统商圈 和 商店数字化 、 智 能 化转型 与 协同化发展。 要 遵循发展规律 ，坚持市场导向 ， 立足各地经济社会发展基础 ， 持续 加强对本地区重点 商圈、商店的 跟踪 培育 ， 分期分批推进 ， 不搞 一哄而上。 要 加强 政策引领 ，完善工作机制， 强化多部门、跨区域协调， 因地制宜出台支持政策， 充分调动各方积极性， 确保示范创建工作 扎实推进 。 要 突出 服务功能， 注重工作实效 ， 不搞形象工程 ，指导各商圈、商店 为消费者提供便捷舒适、 多元融合、 放心安全的消费环境， 为 入驻商户 提供 数字营销、 信息共享、转型培训 等 各项 服务， 切实提高消费者和商户的获得感 。 四、建立动态管理机制 各示范商圈、示范商店 要及时总结工作做法和成效，形成书面总结，经所在省级商务主管部门汇总后报商务部。 2022 年总结于 2023 年 1 月 13 日前报送，后续年度总结于每年 11 月底前报送。 各地商务主管部门 要持续总结提升，梳理工作中好的经验做法，定期向商务部报送典型案例；要切实加强指导，及时协调解决示范商圈、示范商店发展中遇到的困难问题；要定期进行评估，对出现问题的及时进行纠正，对不再符合示范条件要求的提请商务部撤销其示范资格。 联系人： 流通发展司 陈程 电 话： 010-850937 41 邮 箱： L tchengshi@mofcom.gov.cn 附件：首批全国示范智慧商圈、全国示范智慧商店名单 商务部 20 22 年 12 月 29 日 附件
input_url: 20230110010400/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkgztz/202301/20230103378161.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230109174128/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkgztz/202301/20230103378161.shtml
date: 2023-01-10 00:00:00
translated_title: Notice of the Ministry of Commerce on Announcing the First Batch of National Demonstration Smart Business Districts and National Demonstration Smart Shops
translated_content: In order to fully implement the spirit of the 20th CPC National Congress, and resolutely carry out the series of plans of the CPC Central Committee and the State Council on the implementation of the strategy of expanding domestic demand, building a high-standard market system, and leading the accelerated development of new types of consumption, the Ministry of Commerce has decided to recognize 12 shopping districts, including Sanlitun Shopping District in Beijing, and 16 stores, including Taikoo Li South District in Sanlitun, as "National Model Smart Shopping Districts" and "National Model Smart Stores" (hereinafter referred to as Model Shopping Districts and Model Stores). After local cultivation, independent declaration, third-party evaluation and public announcement, the Ministry of Commerce has decided to recognize 12 shopping districts, including Sanlitun Shopping District in Beijing, and 16 stores, including Taikoo Li South District in Sanlitun, as "National Demonstration Intelligent Shopping Districts" and "National Demonstration Intelligent Stores" (hereinafter referred to as the demonstration shopping districts and the demonstration stores, the lists of which are in the Annex). The demonstration business districts and demonstration stores should cherish the honor, grasp the new situation and new tasks and requirements, further strengthen exploration and innovation, better adapt to the requirements of optimization and adjustment for epidemic prevention and control, and continue to promote the recovery and expansion of consumption. The model shopping districts should actively respond to the changes in consumer demand, continuously improve business quality, improve the smart applications for consumers, commercial enterprises, operating organizations and government departments, and create a smart consumption ecosystem integrating online and offline to improve the shopping and leisure experience of the residents and to promote the enhancement of the quality and expansion of consumption. Each demonstration store should make full use of modern information technology to continuously optimize smart facilities, smart services, smart scenes and smart management, and lead the industry in innovation and transformation. The local business authorities should integrate the development of smart shopping areas and smart stores with the renovation and upgrading of pedestrian streets and the creation of a one-minute convenient living circle in the city, and continue to deepen the urban business upgrading action to accelerate the construction of a hierarchical and categorized urban business layout, so as to better satisfy the people's needs for a better life. To strengthen the leading role of walking street enhancement, to promote the existing pedestrian street facilities renovation and industry upgrading, to create a benchmark for urban commercial development. To highlight the role of the urban quarter-hour convenient living circle, expand the coverage of convenient living circle services, and effectively facilitate the daily life of the people. It is necessary to play the role of the platform of intelligent shopping districts and intelligent stores, and develop new forms, modes and scenarios to meet the quality and diversified consumption needs of the residents. The local business authorities should draw on the typical practices of the national model business districts and model stores, coordinate and promote the relevant work, and promote the digital and intelligent transformation and synergistic development of traditional business districts and stores. The authorities in charge of commerce in each region should follow the law of development, adhere to market orientation, and, based on the foundation of economic and social development in each region, continuously strengthen the tracking and cultivation of key business districts and stores in the region, and promote them in phases and batches, rather than in a flurry of activities. To strengthen policy leadership, improve the working mechanism, strengthen multi-sectoral, cross-regional coordination, the introduction of support policies tailored to local conditions, fully mobilize the enthusiasm of all parties to ensure that the demonstration of the creation of a solid progress. To highlight the service function, pay attention to the effectiveness of the work, do not engage in image engineering, guidance to the business district, stores for consumers to provide convenient and comfortable, diversified integration, safe and secure consumption environment, for the merchants to provide digital marketing, information sharing, transformation training and other services, and effectively improve the sense of access to consumers and merchants. The demonstration shopping districts and demonstration stores shall summarize their work practices and results in a timely manner, and form a written summary, which shall be submitted to the Ministry of Commerce after being summarized by the competent provincial departments in charge of commerce. The summary for 2022 will be submitted before January 13, 2023, and the subsequent annual summaries will be submitted before the end of November each year. The competent departments of local commerce departments should continue to summarize and improve, sort out good experiences and practices, and report typical cases to the Ministry of Commerce on a regular basis; they should effectively strengthen the guidance, and coordinate and solve the difficulties and problems encountered in the development of the demonstration business districts and demonstration stores in a timely manner; they should regularly evaluate and correct the problems in a timely manner, and request the Ministry of Commerce to revoke the demonstration status if the demonstration conditions no longer comply with the requirements. Contact Person: Chen Cheng, Circulation Development Department Tel: 010-850937 41 E-mail: L tchengshi@mofcom.gov.cn Annex: The First Batch of National Demonstration Smart Business Districts and National Demonstration Smart Shops Ministry of Commerce December 29, 2022 Annex
english_summary: The Ministry of Commerce has recognized 12 shopping districts and 16 stores as "National Model Smart Shopping Districts" and "National Model Smart Stores." These include Sanlitun Shopping District in Beijing and Taikoo Li South District in Sanlitun. The demonstration districts and stores are to continue promoting the recovery and expansion of consumption, improving the smart applications for consumers, commercial enterprises, operating organizations, and government departments, and creating a smart consumption ecosystem integrating online and offline to improve the shopping and leisure experience for residents.
