html: nan
title: 2024年原油非国营贸易进口允许量总量、 申请条件和申请程序
resulting_text: 根据《中华人民共和国货物进出口管理条例》和我国加入世贸组织的有关承诺，商务部制定了《2024年原油非国营贸易进口允许量总量、申请条件和申请程序》，现予公布。 商务部 2023年10月23日 2024年原油非国营贸易进口允许量总量、 申请条件和申请程序 一、2024年原油非国营贸易进口允许量 2024年原油非国营贸易进口允许量为24300万吨。 二、申请条件 （一）近2年（2022年1月—2023年10月，下同）具有原油进口允许量使用业绩或经国家产业主管部门核准具有使用进口原油资格。 （二）拥有不低于5万吨的原油水运码头（或每年200万吨换装能力的铁路口岸）的使用权，以及库容不低于20万立方米原油储罐的使用权。 （三）银行授信不低于2000万美元（或1.4亿元人民币）。 （四）拥有从事石油国际贸易专业人员（至少2人）。 （五）企业合法依规经营，符合安全生产、环保、税务、海关和外汇管理法律法规，无未整改违法违规行为。 三、申请材料 申请企业须提交以下材料： （一）申请函。包括公司基本情况、符合申请条件的说明、申请原因及有关原油采购、生产使用或销售的具体方案、从事石油国际贸易专业人员简介等。 （二）公司基本证明材料。包括有效期内的《企业法人营业执照副本》复印件、《进出口货物收发货人报关注册登记证书》和《组织机构代码证》复印件。 （三）银行出具的授信额度证明文件。需提供各银行总行或直属分行出具的正式文件原件，其中，中央企业的子公司可提供总部企业集体授信证明。 （四）提供原油码头（或铁路口岸）、储罐等设施的使用协议原件，地市级以上投资主管部门（或环保、消防等其他部门）出具的该码头（铁路口岸）装卸能力和储罐库容能力的证明文件复印件。 （五）国家产业主管部门批复的进口原油使用资质文件。 2023年获得商务部赋予原油非国营贸易进口资格的加工企业无需提供（二）（三）（四）（五）项材料，其他申请允许量的企业均需按要求提供上述材料。所有申请企业须对上述材料真实性负责，提供复印件的同时应提供原件以供核对，并提供申请材料真实性的企业法人代表签字证明。 商务部将向有关部门了解申报企业遵守国家法律法规的情况。 四、分配原则 原油非国营贸易进口允许量按照“分批下达、追加调整、严格考核”的原则下达。2023年底前将第一批允许量下达给符合条件的企业。其后根据企业实际进口情况、经营需求和新增合法产能情况适时追加和调整。近2年无进口业绩的企业不再安排允许量。 根据《中华人民共和国货物进出口管理条例》，不能完成持有进口允许量的企业，应在当年9月1日前，通过所在地商务主管部门或中央企业集团公司将当年无法完成的允许量交还商务部。 五、申报及审核程序 地方申请企业须向所在地省级商务主管部门提出申请，中央企业的子公司须通过集团总部统一申请。 省级商务主管部门、中央企业汇总符合条件的企业名单、申请材料后，于2023年11月15日前以邮寄、快递、当面递交等方式将申请及有关材料送达商务部行政事务服务大厅，逾期概不受理。 报送地址：北京市东长安街2号商务部行政事务服务大厅11号窗口；联系电话：010-65197961；邮政编码：100731。封装申请材料的信封或者物流纸箱的表面需注明“事项编号：18010-001”字样。 商务部对企业的申请材料进行审核后，将分配结果下达给有关省级商务主管部门及中央企业。 六、有关要求 获得原油非国营贸易进口允许量的企业应遵守国家安全生产等有关法律法规，落实安全生产责任，自觉守法经营，维护正常的进口秩序。违反相关法律法规规定的，一经查实，将根据《中华人民共和国货物进出口管理条例》和《货物自动进口许可管理办法》等有关规定进行处罚。
input_url: 20231027204825/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202310/20231003448965.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20231025173201/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202310/20231003448965.shtml
date: 2023-10-28 00:00:00
translated_title: Total allowable volume of crude oil imports for non-state trading in 2024, application requirements and application procedures
translated_content: In accordance with the Regulations of the People's Republic of China on Administration of Import and Export of Goods and China's WTO accession commitments, the Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) has formulated the Total Allowable Volume of Crude Oil Imports for Non-State Trade in 2024, Application Conditions and Application Procedures, which are hereby promulgated. Ministry of Commerce October 23, 2023 2024 crude oil non-state trade imports allowed total volume, application conditions and application procedures I. 2024 crude oil non-state trade imports allowed 2024 crude oil non-state trade imports allowed volume of 243 million tons. Application conditions (a) In the past 2 years (January 2022 - October 2023, the same below) with the performance of the use of crude oil import allowances or approved by the competent state industrial authorities with the use of imported crude oil qualification. (ii) Have the right to use the crude oil water transport terminal of not less than 50,000 tons (or the railroad port with the capacity of 2 million tons of changeover per year) and the right to use the crude oil storage tanks with the capacity of not less than 200,000 cubic meters. (c) Bank credit of not less than US$20 million (or RMB 140 million). (d) Possess professional staff (at least 2 persons) engaged in international oil trading. (E) The enterprise operates legally and in accordance with the laws and regulations on production safety, environmental protection, taxation, customs and foreign exchange management, and there is no violation of laws and regulations that have not been rectified. Third, the application materials The applicant company must submit the following materials: (a) application letter. Including the basic situation of the company, meet the application conditions, the reasons for the application and the procurement of crude oil, production and use or sale of specific programs, engaged in international trade in petroleum professionals profile. (ii) Basic company documents. Including the validity of the "copy of the business license of the enterprise legal person," a copy of the "consignee or consignor of imported and exported goods customs registration certificate" and "Organization Code Certificate" copy. (iii) Documents proving credit limit issued by banks. It is necessary to provide the original official documents issued by the head office or directly under the branch of each bank, of which the subsidiaries of the central enterprises can provide the headquarters of the enterprise collective credit certificate. (d) Provide the original of the agreement on the use of the crude oil terminal (or railroad port), storage tanks and other facilities, and copies of the documents certifying the loading and unloading capacity of the terminal (railroad port) and the capacity of the storage tanks issued by the competent investment department at or above the prefectural or municipal level (or other departments such as environmental protection, fire protection, etc.). (v) Qualification documents for the use of imported crude oil approved by the competent state industrial authorities. Processing enterprises that have been granted the qualification of importing crude oil for non-state trading by the Ministry of Commerce in 2023 are not required to provide the materials in (ii) (iii) (iv) (v), while all other enterprises applying for the permitted quantity are required to provide the above materials as required. All applicant enterprises shall be responsible for the authenticity of the above materials, and shall provide the originals for verification while providing the copies, as well as the certificates signed by the legal representatives of the enterprises on the authenticity of the application materials. The Ministry of Commerce will learn from the relevant departments about the compliance of the declaring enterprises with national laws and regulations. Allocation Principles The permitted import volume of crude oil for non-state trading will be issued in accordance with the principle of "issuance in batches, additional adjustments, and strict assessment", and the first batch of permitted volume will be issued to eligible enterprises before the end of 2023. The first batch of permitted volume will be issued to eligible enterprises by the end of 2023, followed by additions and adjustments in due course according to the enterprises' actual import situation, operational needs and new legal production capacity. Enterprises with no import performance in the past 2 years will no longer be arranged for the permitted quantity. According to the "Regulations of the People's Republic of China on the Administration of the Import and Export of Goods", enterprises that cannot complete the permitted volume of imported goods should return the permitted volume that cannot be completed in the current year to the Ministry of Commerce through the competent local commerce department or the central enterprise group company before September 1 of the current year. V. Declaration and Review Procedures The local applicant enterprises shall apply to the local provincial commerce department, and the subsidiaries of the central enterprise shall apply through the group headquarter. Provincial competent departments of commerce, central enterprises summarize the list of eligible enterprises, application materials, by November 15, 2023 by mail, courier, face-to-face delivery of the application and related materials to the Ministry of Commerce Administrative Services Hall, after the deadline will not be accepted. Address: Window No. 11, Administrative Service Hall, Ministry of Commerce, No. 2 East Chang'an Street, Beijing; Tel: 010-65197961; Postal Code: 100731; The envelope or logistics carton in which the application materials are encapsulated should indicate "Matter No. 18010-001" on the surface of the envelope or logistics carton. After the Ministry of Commerce examines the application materials of the enterprises, the allocation results will be sent to the relevant provincial departments in charge of commerce and the central enterprises. VI. Relevant Requirements Enterprises that have obtained the permitted import volume of crude oil for non-state trading should comply with the relevant laws and regulations on national production safety, implement the responsibility for production safety, consciously abide by the law, and maintain the normal order of imports. Any violation of relevant laws and regulations, once found, will be punished in accordance with the Regulations of the People's Republic of China on Administration of Import and Export of Goods and Measures for Administration of Automatic Import License of Goods and other relevant provisions.
english_summary: The Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) has formulated the Total Allowable Volume of Crude Oil Imports for Non-State Trade in 2024, Application Conditions and Application Procedures, which allow non-state trading enterprises to import 243 million tons of crude oil. The regulations also outline the application requirements and procedures for such imports. These requirements include having the right to use a crude oil water transport terminal with a capacity of 50,000 tons or a railroad port with a capacity of 2 million tons of changeover per year, and having a credit limit of at least US$20 million or RMB 140 million. The applicant company must submit a letter stating the basic situation of the company, meeting the application conditions and providing information on the procurement, production, and use of crude oil, as well as engaged in international trade in petroleum professionals. The allocation of the permitted import volume of crude oil for non-state trading will be issued in batches, and the first batch of permitted volume will be issued before the end of 2023, with additions and adjustments made according to the enterprises' actual import situation. Enterprises without import performance in the past 2 years will no longer be arranged for the permitted quantity. Any violation of relevant laws and regulations will be punished in accordance with the Regulations of the People's Republic of China on Administration of Import and Export of Goods and Measures for Administration of Automatic Import License of Goods and other relevant provisions.
