html: nan
title: 不可靠实体清单工作机制关于将洛克希德·马丁公司、雷神导弹与防务公司列入不可靠实体清单的公告
resulting_text: 不 可 靠 实 体 清 单 工 作 机   制 公　               告 2023年 第1号 为维护国家主权、安全和发展利益，根据《中华人民共和国对外贸易法》《中华人民共和国国家安全法》等有关法律，不可靠实体清单工作机制依据《不可靠实体清单规定》第二条、第八条和第十条等有关规定，决定将参与对台湾地区军售的洛克希德·马丁公司（Lockheed Martin Corporation）、雷神导弹与防务公司（Raytheon Missiles & Defense）列入不可靠实体清单，并采取以下处理措施： 一、禁止上述企业从事与中国有关的进出口活动； 二、禁止上述企业在中国境内新增投资； 三、禁止上述企业高级管理人员入境； 四、不批准并取消上述企业高级管理人员在中国境内工作许可、停留以及居留资格； 五、对上述企业分别处以罚款，金额为《不可靠实体清单规定》实施以来各企业对台军售合同金额的两倍。上述企业应当自本公告公布之日起15日内，按照相关法律法规办理缴款。若逾期不履行本决定，不可靠实体清单工作机制将依法采取加处罚款等措施。 本公告未尽事宜，按《不可靠实体清单规定》执行。 本公告自公布之日起实施。 不可靠实体清单工作机制 （商务部代章） 2023年2月16日
input_url: 20230218033225/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202302/20230203391289.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230217132629/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202302/20230203391289.shtml
date: 2023-02-18 00:00:00
translated_title: Announcement by the Working Mechanism on the List of Unreliable Entities of the inclusion of Lockheed Martin Corporation and Raytheon Missiles and Defense Company in the list of unreliable entities
translated_content: Announcement of the Working Mechanism on the List of Unreliable Entities No. 1 of 2023 In order to safeguard national sovereignty, security and development interests, and in accordance with the Foreign Trade Law of the People's Republic of China, the National Security Law of the People's Republic of China and other relevant laws, the Working Mechanism on the List of Unreliable Entities, in accordance with the relevant provisions of Articles 2, 8 and 10 of the Provisions on the List of Unreliable Entities, has decided to include in the List of Unreliable Entities the abovementioned companies that have been involved in arms sales to Taiwan. Lockheed Martin Corporation and Raytheon Missiles & Defense, which are involved in arms sales to Taiwan, have been placed on the List of Unreliable Entities, and the following measures have been taken to deal with them (i) Prohibit the above enterprises from engaging in import and export activities related to China; (ii) Prohibit the above enterprises from making new investments in China; (iii) Prohibit the entry of senior management personnel of the above enterprises into the country; (iv) Disapprove and revoke the qualifications of the senior management personnel of the above enterprises for work permits, stays, and residency in China; and (v) Impose fines on each of the above enterprises, amounting to twice the amount of the contract for the sale of arms to Taiwan of each of the enterprises since the implementation of the "List of Unreliable Entities". The above enterprises shall, within 15 days from the date of publication of this announcement, process the payment in accordance with relevant laws and regulations. If they fail to fulfill this decision after the deadline, the Working Mechanism of the List of Unreliable Entities will take measures such as imposing additional fines in accordance with the law. Matters not covered in this announcement shall be implemented in accordance with the Provisions on the List of Unreliable Entities. This Notice shall be implemented from the date of publication. Working Mechanism for the List of Unreliable Entities (Substituted by the Ministry of Commerce) February 16, 2023
english_summary: The Working Mechanism on the List of Unreliable Entities has announced the inclusion of Lockheed Martin Corporation and Raytheon Missiles and Defense Company on the list of unreliable entities due to their involvement in arms sales to Taiwan. The announcement imposes various measures on these companies, including a ban on import and export activities related to China, prohibition of new investments in China, and a ban on the entry of their senior management personnel into the country. Additionally, the qualifications of their senior management personnel for work permits, stays, and residency in China will be disapproved and revoked. Fines equivalent to twice the amount of the contract for the sale of arms to Taiwan will also be imposed on these companies. The Working Mechanism has given these companies 15 days to process the payment in accordance with relevant laws and regulations. If they fail to comply with the decision by the deadline, the Working Mechanism will take measures such as imposing additional fines in accordance with the law.
