html: nan
title: 商务部等10部门关于提升加工贸易发展水平的意见
resulting_text: 商贸发〔2023〕308号 各省、自治区、直辖市人民政府，新疆生产建设兵团： 加工贸易对扩大对外开放、稳定就业、推动产业结构升级、促进区域协调发展具有重要意义，是联结国内国际双循环、巩固提升我国在全球产业链供应链地位的重要贸易方式。为深入贯彻落实党的二十大精神，提升加工贸易水平，支持产业向中西部、东北地区梯度转移，促进加工贸易持续健康发展，加快建设贸易强国，经国务院同意，现提出以下意见： 一、鼓励开展高附加值产品加工贸易 支持电子信息、生物医药、航空航天、新能源、新材料等先进制造业和战略性新兴产业加工贸易发展，充分发挥其辐射带动和技术溢出作用，促进产业集群发展和优化升级。鼓励加工贸易企业用足用好研发费用税前加计扣除等优惠政策，加强研发和技术改造，提升制造水平和产品附加值。鼓励地方利用现有资金政策，进一步支持加工贸易企业核心技术研发创新。 （国家发展改革委、 科技部、财政部、工业和信息化部、 商务部、 税务总局 ， 各地方人民政府 按职责分工负责） 二、促进综合保税区和自贸试验区保税维修业务发展 动态调整综合保税区维修产品目录，尽快将飞机发动机短舱、船舶用柴油发动机等产品纳入目录范围。允许综合保税区内企业开展本集团国内销售的自产产品保税维修业务，维修后返回国内，不受维修产品目录限制。允许国内待维修货物进入综合保税区维修，直接出口至境外。在落实地方主体责任、完善综合监管方案、明确全链条监管机制等条件下，以试点方式推进综合保税区内企业开展维修产品目录范围外的保税维修业务。出台自贸试验区“两头在外”保税维修管理规定，支持区内海关高级认证企业参照综合保税区维修产品目录及相关要求，开展飞机、船舶、盾构机等大型装备“两头在外”保税维修业务。 （商务部牵头，财政部、生态环境部、海关总署、税务总局按职责分工负责） 三、推进其他区域保税维修试点 在综合保税区和自贸试验区外，加快支持一批医疗器械、电子信息等自产出口产品“两头在外”保税维修试点项目。在对已开展试点项目系统评估的基础上，再支持一批有条件的航空航天、船舶、工程机械、电子信息等行业企业开展非自产产品“两头在外”保税维修试点。在加工贸易转型升级成效明显的苏州市、东莞市、天津市滨海新区进行“两头在外”保税维修试点，在信息化系统完备、可与生态环境和海关等部门实现联网管理的前提下，由所在地省级人民政府承担主体责任，制定多部门综合监管方案，建立全链条监管机制，参照自贸试验区“两头在外”保税维修管理规定相关要求，支持企业开展相关业务。 （商务部牵头，财政部、生态环境部、海关总署、税务总局按职责分工负责） 四、加强梯度转移载体建设 高质量培育加工贸易梯度转移重点承接地、加工贸易承接转移示范地、国家加工贸易产业园等载体，完善动态评价考核机制，加强分类指导。加大宣传力度，持续引导加工贸易向中西部和东北地区转移。支持开展政策培训、经验交流等活动，促进加工贸易梯度转移的好经验好做法复制推广。 （ 商务部牵头， 人力资源社会保障部、海关总署， 各地方人民政府 按职责分工负责） 对符合条件的梯度转移载体项目，通过地方政府专项债券给予支持。 （国家发展改革委、财政部 ， 各 地方人民政府按职责分工负责 ） 结合地方发展需求，优先支持中西部和东北地区符合条件的地方设立保税监管场所。 （海关总署 牵头， 财政部、税务总局、国家外汇局按职责分工 负责 ） 五、完善加工贸易梯度转移对接合作机制 拓展中国加工贸易产品博览会功能，打造线上线下常态化产业对接服务平台，线上建立各地方专栏，宣传推介投资环境、发布转入转出项目信息等，线下组织梯度转移对接交流活动，促进区域投资合作和产业对接。支持贸促机构、行业商协会等组织有意向的企业开展投资考察、交流对接等活动。 （商务部牵头，中国贸促会 ， 各地方人民政府按职责分工负责） 六、加大对边境地区支持力度 支持广西、云南等有条件的边境省区利用沿边现有平台，发挥当地产业优势，承接特色食品、服装鞋帽、电子信息等加工贸易产业。支持边境省区推进智慧口岸建设，保障陆路口岸货运物流高效畅通，持续提升口岸过货能力，为加工贸易发展打造快速跨境物流通道。 （ 国家发展改革委 、工业和信息化部、 交通运输部、 商务部、海关总署 ， 有关 地方人民政府按职责分工负责） 七、强化财税政策支持 统筹用好外经贸发展专项资金等中央和地方现有资金渠道，进一步支持加工贸易转型升级和梯度转移。全面落实境外投资者以分配利润直接投资暂不征收预提所得税政策。实施好《鼓励外商投资产业目录（2022年版）》《西部地区鼓励类产业目录（2020年本）》等，落实相应税收优惠政策。 （ 国家发展改革委 、财政部、商务部、税务总局 ， 各地方人民政府按职责分工负责） 八、加强金融政策支持 鼓励银行机构加大对加工贸易企业特别是中小微企业生产经营及进出口的信贷支持力度。支持保险机构加大对加工贸易企业特别是中小微企业的出口信用保险支持力度。鼓励金融机构优化完善外汇衍生品和跨境人民币业务，更好满足包括加工贸易企业在内的外贸企业汇率避险和跨境人民币结算需求。鼓励各地加强对中小微加工贸易企业在汇率避险方面的培训、咨询等公共服务。 （中国人民银行、商务部、金融监管总局、国家外汇局 ， 各地方人民政府按职责分工负责） 九、强化交通物流与用能保障 鼓励地方因地制宜强化跨境物流运输保障。对接共建“一带一路”倡议，结合地方发展需求和重点项目布局，优化中欧班列开行布局，提升开行效率。支持国际航空运输向中西部和东北地区重点城市增加货运航线和班次。进一步优化运输组织与线路布局，促进多式联运高质量发展。鼓励中西部和东北地区加大支持力度，降低加工贸易企业国际物流运输成本。 （交通运输部、 国家发展改革委、 中国 民航局、 中国国家铁路集团有限公司， 各地方人民政府按职责分工负责） 优化分时电价动态调整机制，进一步完善峰谷分时电价政策，强化对加工贸易梯度转移重点承接地、国家加工贸易产业园和重点加工贸易企业的用能保障。 （ 国家发展改革委， 各地方人民政府按职责分工负责） 十、满足多层次用人需求 支持地方整合相关教育培训资源，以行业企业为主体、职业院校为基础，打造制造业职业教育培训基地和平台，为加工贸易企业培养优质产业工人。引导校企联合开展现场工程师培养计划，为企业“量身定制”技术技能人才。举办公共就业服务专项活动，搭建企业和劳动者供需对接平台。鼓励地方优化人才引进政策，降低有关人才认定的标准门槛，调减引进人才享受优惠政策的限制条件，支持高技能人才享受就业、子女教育、住房、医疗等保障服务，为加工贸易企业提供人力资源保障。 （教育部、人力资源社会保障部、商务部 ， 各地方人民政府按职责分工负责） 十一、支持拓展国内市场 推进内外贸一体化，鼓励地方开展相关业务培训、宣传推介、信息服务等，为加工贸易企业内销提供人才、渠道等支持。支持企业投保多元化的保险产品，提升保险对加工贸易企业内销的保障力度。 （ 工业和信息化部、 商务部、金融监管总局 ， 各地方人民政府 按 职责分工负责） 十二、优化加工贸易管理与服务 根据行业生产工艺和环保技术发展实际，适时调减加工贸易禁止类商品目录。暂停对加工贸易限制类商品采取担保管理措施至2025年，将加工贸易不作价设备监管年限由5年缩减至3年。创新海关监管机制，提升信息化管理水平，优化作业手续。 （ 商务部、 海关总署牵头 ） 各地方、各有关部门要以习近平新时代中国特色社会主义思想为指导，全面贯彻党的二十大精神，坚持稳中求进工作总基调，高度重视提升加工贸易发展水平。商务部要会同有关部门根据职责分工完善配套政策，建立部门间联系配合机制。各地方要结合实际细化具体措施，切实抓好组织落实，为加工贸易健康持续发展营造良好政策环境。 商务部 国家发展和改革委 工业和信息化部 财政部 人力资源社会保障部 生态环境部 交通运输部 海关总署 税务总局 金融监管总局 2023年12月25日
input_url: 20231230015821/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202312/20231203463539.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20231229115848/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202312/20231203463539.shtml
date: 2023-12-30 00:00:00
translated_title: Opinions of the Ministry of Commerce and Other 10 Departments on Upgrading the Development Level of Processing Trade
translated_content: Commerce and Trade Development [2023] No. 308 Provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the Central People's Government, Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps: Processing trade is of great significance to the expansion of opening up to the outside world, stabilizing employment, promoting the upgrading of the industrial structure, and promoting the coordinated development of the region, and it is an important mode of trade to link the domestic and international double cycle, and to consolidate and enhance China's position in the supply chain of the global industrial chain. In order to thoroughly implement the spirit of the 20th CPC National Congress, enhance the level of processing trade, support the gradient transfer of industries to central and western China and the northeast, promote the sustained and healthy development of processing trade, and accelerate the construction of a strong trading nation, with the consent of the State Council, the following opinions are put forward Support the development of processing trade in advanced manufacturing industries and strategic emerging industries such as electronic information, biomedicine, aerospace, new energy, new materials, etc., and give full play to its radiation-driven and technological spillover, and promote the development and optimization and upgrading of industrial clusters. Encourage processing trade enterprises to make full use of preferential policies such as pre-tax deduction for research and development expenses, strengthen research and development and technological transformation, and enhance the level of manufacturing and added value of products. Encourage local use of existing funding policies to further support the core technology R & D innovation of processing trade enterprises. (National Development and Reform Commission, Ministry of Science and Technology, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, Ministry of Commerce, General Administration of Taxation, the local people's governments in accordance with the division of responsibilities) Second, to promote the development of bonded maintenance business in the comprehensive bonded zones and experimental free trade zones Dynamically adjust the product catalog of the maintenance of the comprehensive bonded zones as soon as possible to the nacelles of the aircraft engines, diesel engines for ships, and other products included in the scope of the catalog. Enterprises in comprehensive bonded zones are allowed to carry out bonded maintenance business for self-produced products sold domestically by the group and return to the country after maintenance without the restriction of the maintenance catalog. Domestic goods to be repaired are allowed to enter the comprehensive bonded zone for repair and directly exported abroad. Under the conditions of implementing the main responsibility of the local authorities, perfecting the comprehensive supervision program and clarifying the whole chain supervision mechanism, enterprises in the comprehensive bonded zones will be promoted to carry out bonded repair business outside the scope of the repair product catalog on a pilot basis. The introduction of the Pilot Free Trade Zone "two outside" bonded maintenance management regulations to support the region's senior customs certified enterprises with reference to the comprehensive bonded zone maintenance product catalog and related requirements, to carry out aircraft, ships, shield machine and other large equipment "two outside" bonded maintenance business. (led by the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Ecology, the General Administration of Customs, the General Administration of Taxation, according to the division of responsibilities) Third, to promote other regional bonded maintenance pilot outside the comprehensive bonded zones and Pilot Free Trade Zones, to accelerate the support of a number of medical equipment, electronic information and other self-produced export products, "outside the two" bonded maintenance pilot projects. On the basis of the systematic assessment of the pilot project has been carried out, and then support a number of conditional aerospace, shipping, construction machinery, electronic information and other industries to carry out non-self-produced products "outside" bonded maintenance pilot. In the processing trade transformation and upgrading of the effectiveness of Suzhou City, Dongguan City, Tianjin Binhai New Area for the "two outside" bonded maintenance pilot, in the information system is complete, and can be realized with the ecological environment and customs and other departments of the premise of networked management, by the location of the people's government at the provincial level to assume the main responsibility for the development of multi-sectoral integrated supervision program, the establishment of a full chain of supervision mechanism, with reference to the full chain of supervision, and the establishment of a comprehensive supervision mechanism. Establish a full chain of regulatory mechanisms, with reference to the requirements of the Pilot Free Trade Zone "outside the two" bonded maintenance management regulations, to support enterprises to carry out related business. (Led by the Ministry of Commerce, with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Ecology and Environment, the General Administration of Customs, and the State Administration of Taxation in charge according to their respective responsibilities.) Strengthen the construction of gradient transfer carriers, cultivate the key acceptance sites of the gradient transfer of processing trade, the demonstration sites of the acceptance and transfer of processing trade and the national industrial park of processing trade and other carriers with high quality, improve the dynamic evaluation and assessment mechanism, and strengthen the guidance of categorization. Increase publicity and continue to guide the processing trade to move to the central, western and northeastern regions. Support the development of policy training, experience exchange and other activities, and promote the replication and popularization of good experiences and practices in the gradient transfer of processing trade. (Led by the Ministry of Commerce, led by the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security, the General Administration of Customs, and the local people's governments in accordance with their division of responsibilities.) Support qualified projects of gradient transfer carriers through special bonds of local governments. (National Development and Reform Commission, Ministry of Finance, all local people's governments in accordance with their respective responsibilities) Combined with the needs of local development, prioritize support for the establishment of bonded supervisory sites in eligible places in the central, western and northeastern regions. (Led by the General Administration of Customs, with the Ministry of Finance, the State Administration of Taxation and the State Administration of Foreign Exchange in charge according to their respective responsibilities) V. Improvement of docking and cooperation mechanism for the gradient transfer of processing trade Expanding the functions of the China Processing Trade Expo, creating a regular online and offline industrial docking service platform, setting up columns in various places on the line, publicizing and recommending the investment environment, and releasing information on the projects that will be transferred into and out of the country, and organizing docking and exchange activities for the gradient transfer, and promoting regional investment cooperation and industrial docking. Organize offline activities to promote regional investment cooperation and industrial docking. Support trade promotion agencies, industry associations and other organizations to carry out investment visits, exchanges and docking activities for interested enterprises. (Led by the Ministry of Commerce, CCPIT, and all local people's governments are responsible according to their respective responsibilities.) VI. Increase support for border areas Support Guangxi, Yunnan and other border provinces and regions with conditions to take advantage of the existing platforms along the border, and give full play to the advantages of the local industry, to undertake the processing and trade of specialty food, clothing, shoes and hats, and electronic information and other industries. Support border provinces and regions to promote the construction of smart ports, ensure the efficient and smooth flow of freight logistics at land ports, continuously improve the capacity of ports to cross the goods, and create fast cross-border logistics channels for the development of processing trade. (National Development and Reform Commission, Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, Ministry of Transportation, Ministry of Commerce, General Administration of Customs, the relevant local people's governments in accordance with the division of responsibilities) VII. Strengthen financial and tax policy support Coordinate the use of special funds for the development of foreign trade and economic cooperation, such as the central government and the existing local funding channels, to further support the transformation and upgrading of the processing trade and the gradient transfer. Fully implement the policy of no withholding income tax on direct investment by overseas investors with distributed profits. Implement the Catalogue of Industries Encouraging Foreign Investment (2022 Edition), Catalogue of Industries Encouraged in the Western Region (2020 Edition), etc., and implement the corresponding preferential tax policies. (National Development and Reform Commission, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Commerce, General Administration of Taxation, the local people's governments in accordance with the division of responsibilities) VIII. Strengthen financial policy support Encourage banking institutions to increase credit support for processing trade enterprises, especially small and medium-sized micro-enterprises in the production and operation and import and export. Support insurance institutions to increase the processing trade enterprises, especially small, medium and micro enterprises export credit insurance support. Encourage financial institutions to optimize and improve foreign exchange derivatives and cross-border RMB business to better meet the needs of foreign trade enterprises, including processing trade enterprises, for exchange rate hedging and cross-border RMB settlement. Encourage localities to strengthen training, counseling and other public services for small, medium and micro processing trade enterprises in exchange rate hedging. (The People's Bank of China, the Ministry of Commerce, the General Administration of Financial Supervision, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, the local people's governments in accordance with the division of responsibilities) IX. Strengthening Transportation, Logistics and Energy Security Encourage localities to strengthen cross-border logistics and transportation security in accordance with local conditions. Docking to the "Belt and Road" initiative, optimize the layout of China-European liner trains and improve the efficiency of operation in light of local development needs and the layout of key projects. Supporting international air transportation to increase cargo routes and frequencies to key cities in central and western China and northeastern China. Further optimize the transportation organization and route layout, and promote the high-quality development of multimodal transportation. Encourage the central and western and northeastern regions to increase support to reduce the international logistics and transportation costs of processing trade enterprises. (Ministry of Transport, National Development and Reform Commission, Civil Aviation Administration of China, China State Railway Group Corporation Limited, and local people's governments in accordance with their respective responsibilities) Optimize the dynamic adjustment mechanism of time-sharing electricity price, further improve the peak and valley time-sharing electricity price policy, and strengthen the energy protection for key acceptance sites of the gradient transfer of the processing trade, the national industrial park for the processing trade, and key enterprises in the processing trade. (National Development and Reform Commission, local people's governments in accordance with their respective responsibilities) X. Meet the demand for multi-level employment Support local integration of relevant education and training resources, industry enterprises as the main body, vocational colleges and universities as the basis for the creation of manufacturing vocational education and training bases and platforms for the processing trade enterprises to cultivate high-quality industrial workers. Guiding schools and enterprises to jointly carry out on-site engineer training programs to "customize" technical and skilled personnel for enterprises. It has organized special activities for public employment services and set up a platform for matching supply and demand between enterprises and workers. Encourage localities to optimize policies for the introduction of talents, lower the standard threshold for the identification of relevant talents, reduce the restrictions on the preferential policies for the introduction of talents, and support highly-skilled talents in enjoying employment, children's education, housing, medical care and other guaranteed services, so as to provide human resources protection for processing trade enterprises. (Ministry of Education, Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security, Ministry of Commerce, the local people's governments in accordance with the division of responsibilities) XI, support the expansion of the domestic market to promote the integration of domestic and foreign trade, and encourage local business training, publicity and promotion, information services, and so on, for the domestic sales of processing trade enterprises to provide talent, channels and other support. Support enterprises to take out diversified insurance products, and enhance insurance protection for domestic sales of processing trade enterprises. (Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, the Ministry of Commerce, the General Administration of Financial Supervision, the local people's governments in accordance with the division of responsibilities) XII, optimize the processing trade management and services According to the actual development of industrial production processes and environmental protection technology, in due course to reduce the processing trade prohibited categories of goods directory. Suspend the processing trade of restricted commodities to take security management measures until 2025, the processing trade of non-valuable equipment regulatory period from 5 years to 3 years. Innovate the customs supervision mechanism, improve the level of information management and optimize operational procedures. (Led by the Ministry of Commerce and the General Administration of Customs) All localities and relevant departments shall be guided by Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era, fully implement the spirit of the 20th Party Congress, adhere to the general tone of seeking progress while maintaining stability, and attach great importance to enhancing the development of processing trade. The Ministry of Commerce shall work with relevant departments to improve supporting policies in accordance with the division of responsibilities, and establish an inter-departmental contact and cooperation mechanism. Localities should take into account the actual details of specific measures, and effectively organize and implement them, so as to create a good policy environment for the healthy and sustainable development of processing trade. Ministry of Commerce National Development and Reform Commission Ministry of Industry and Information Technology Ministry of Finance Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security Ministry of Ecology and Environment Ministry of Transportation General Administration of Customs Taxation General Administration of Financial Supervision December 25, 2023
english_summary: The opinions of the Ministry of Commerce and other ten departments on upgrading the development level of processing trade were published in 2023. The document outlines various measures and policies to support and promote the development of processing trade, such as strengthening the construction of processing trade carriers, promoting bonded maintenance business, facilitating the gradient transfer of processing trade, and improving the investment cooperation mechanism for gradient transfer of processing trade. The document also emphasizes the importance of financial and tax policy support, transportation, logistics, and energy security, as well as meeting the demand for multi-level employment and supporting the expansion of the domestic market. Additionally, the document highlights the need to optimize the processing trade management and services. The document aims to create a good policy environment
