html: nan
title: 赵文宇参赞出席云南-老挝经贸合作推介会
resulting_text: 为进一步深化云南省与老挝经贸合作，云南省商务厅厅长李晨阳率云南商务代表团于2月20至22日访问老挝。访问期间，代表团于2月21日下午在万象东昌酒店举办云南-老挝经贸合作推介会，老挝国家工商会主席乌德、云南省商务厅厅长李晨阳、中国驻老挝大使馆经济商务处参赞赵文宇出席推介会并致辞，老中合作委员会副主席赛萨纳、老挝工贸部代表及滇老企业代表等共140余人参加推介会。 乌德在致辞中表示，老挝与云南山水相连，作为内陆国的老挝在经贸领域保持与云南省密切交流合作。老挝国家工商会有近一千家企业会员，很多企业有与云南省进行经贸合作的意向。本次推介会意义重大，为疫后老挝经济和投资复苏注入了强大动力。老挝国家工商会代表老挝企业家愿积极贯彻落实好两国最高领导人会晤达成的重要共识和签署的一系列经贸和投资合作协议，进一步推动老挝和云南经贸合作发展。 李晨阳在致辞中表示，云南与老挝毗邻而居，人民世代和睦相处，友好交流源远流长。在两党两国高层引领和双方共同努力下，云南与老挝紧密联系、精诚合作，推动滇老各领域务实合作取得丰硕成果。云南省愿同老方各位领导、企业家一道，携手并进，继往开来，共同落实好两国领导人达成的重要共识，以及本次会议提出的各项合作建议，为本国企业和老挝企业提供巨大的市场和多种发展机遇，促进互利共赢发展。 赵文宇参赞在致辞中表示，滇老经贸往来和合作见证了两国源远流长的深厚友谊，也跨越了时间和空间，历久弥新，在新时代迸发出蓬勃的生命力，迎来新的发展机遇。愿与老方共同落实好两国最高领导人会晤达成的重要共识，共享中国发展新机遇，充分发挥滇老地缘优势，深化各领域经贸合作，携手共建高质量“一带一路”，积极推进中老共同繁荣发展、人民生活水平不断提升，为推动构建中老社会主义人类命运共同体作出不懈努力。 在推介会上，云天化集团、寮源国际物流云南有限公司、老挝万象赛色塔开发区、万象物流园区、ASA电力有限公司等滇老企业代表介绍企业情况、交流合作意向，深入探讨恢复和加强滇老经贸合作。
input_url: 20230224015830/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202302/20230203393087.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230225143947/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202302/20230203393087.shtml
date: 2023-02-24 00:00:00
translated_title: Counselor Zhao Wenyu Attends Yunnan-Laos Economic and Trade Cooperation Promotion Conference
translated_content: In order to further deepen the economic and trade cooperation between Yunnan Province and Laos, Li Chenyang, Director of the Department of Commerce of Yunnan Province, led a Yunnan business delegation to visit Laos from February 20th to 22nd. During the visit, the delegation held Yunnan-Laos Economic and Trade Cooperation Promotion Conference at Dongchang Hotel in Vientiane on the afternoon of February 21, which was attended by Chairman of Lao National Chamber of Commerce and Industry Oudh, Director of Yunnan Provincial Department of Commerce Li Chenyang, Counselor of Economic and Commercial Office of Chinese Embassy in Laos Zhao Wenyu and delivered a speech, and attended by more than 140 people, including Vice Chairman of Lao-China Cooperation Committee Sesana, representatives of Ministry of Industry and Trade of Laos, and Yunnan-Laos enterprise representatives. In his speech, Mr. Oudh said that Laos and Yunnan are connected by mountains and rivers, and as a landlocked country, Laos maintains close exchanges and cooperation with Yunnan Province in the field of economy and trade. The Lao National Chamber of Commerce and Industry has nearly 1,000 enterprise members, and many enterprises have the intention of economic and trade cooperation with Yunnan Province. This seminar is of great significance and has injected a strong impetus for the economic and investment recovery of Laos after the epidemic. On behalf of Lao entrepreneurs, the Lao National Chamber of Commerce and Industry is willing to actively implement the important consensus reached at the meeting of the top leaders of the two countries and the signing of a series of economic, trade and investment cooperation agreements to further promote the development of economic and trade cooperation between Laos and Yunnan Province. Li Chenyang said in his speech that Yunnan and Laos live in close proximity to each other, and their people have been living in harmony for generations, and friendly exchanges have a long history. In the two parties and two high-level leadership and joint efforts of both sides, Yunnan and Laos close contact, sincere cooperation, and promote practical cooperation between Yunnan and Laos in various fields to achieve fruitful results. Yunnan Province is willing to work with the Lao leaders and entrepreneurs, hand in hand, and continue to implement the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries, as well as the cooperation proposals put forward at this meeting, so as to provide a huge market and a variety of development opportunities for the domestic and Lao enterprises and to promote mutually beneficial and win-win development. Counselor Zhao Wenyu said in his speech that the economic and trade exchanges and cooperation between Yunnan and Laos have witnessed the profound friendship between the two countries which has a long history and has transcended time and space, and is everlasting and new, and is bursting with vitality and ushering in new development opportunities in the new era. We are willing to work with the Lao side to implement the important consensus reached at the meeting between the top leaders of the two countries, share the new opportunities for China's development, give full play to the geographical advantages of Yunnan and Lao, deepen economic and trade cooperation in various fields, join hands to build a high-quality "One Belt, One Road", and actively promote the common prosperity and development of China and Lao and the continuous improvement of the living standards of the people, and make unremitting efforts to promote the construction of a socialist community of human destiny in China and Lao. We will make unremitting efforts to promote the building of a socialist community of human destiny between China and the Lao People's Democratic Republic. At the promotion meeting, representatives of Yunnan and Lao enterprises, such as Yuntianhua Group, Liaoyuan International Logistics Yunnan Co., Ltd, Vientiane Sai Serta Development Zone, Vientiane Logistics Park, and ASA Power Co., Ltd, introduced their enterprises, exchanged their cooperation intentions, and discussed in depth about resumption and strengthening of economic and trade cooperation between Yunnan and Lao.
english_summary: Yunnan province and the Laos National Chamber of Commerce and Industry had a promotion conference about economic and trade cooperation from February 20th to 22nd.
