html: nan
title: 商务部关于对原产于美国和日本的进口氢碘酸所适用的反倾销措施发起期终复审调查的公告
resulting_text: 2018年10月15日，商务部发布2018年第80号公告，决定自2018年10月16日起，对原产于美国和日本的进口氢碘酸征收反倾销税，税率为美国123.4%，日本41.1%，实施期限5年。 2023年8月11日，商务部收到泰安汉威集团有限公司代表国内氢碘酸产业提交的反倾销措施期终复审申请书。申请人主张，如果终止反倾销措施，原产于美国和日本的进口氢碘酸对中国的倾销可能继续或再度发生，对中国产业造成的损害可能继续或再度发生，请求商务部对原产于美国和日本的进口氢碘酸进行期终复审调查，并维持对原产于美国和日本的进口氢碘酸实施的反倾销措施。 根据《中华人民共和国反倾销条例》有关规定，商务部对申请人资格、被调查产品和中国同类产品有关情况、反倾销措施实施期间被调查产品进口情况、倾销继续或再度发生的可能性、损害继续或再度发生的可能性及相关证据等进行了审查。现有证据表明，申请人符合《中华人民共和国反倾销条例》第十一条、第十三条和第十七条关于产业及产业代表性的规定，有资格代表中国氢碘酸产业提出申请。调查机关认为，申请人的主张以及所提交的表面证据符合期终复审立案的要求。 根据《中华人民共和国反倾销条例》第四十八条规定，商务部决定自2023年10月16日起，对原产于美国和日本的进口氢碘酸所适用的反倾销措施进行期终复审调查。现将有关事项公告如下： 一、继续实施反倾销措施 根据商务部建议，国务院关税税则委员会决定，在反倾销措施期终复审调查期间，对原产于美国和日本的进口氢碘酸继续按照商务部2018年第80号公告公布的征税产品范围和税率征收反倾销税。对各公司征收的反倾销税税率如下： 美国公司： 1.艾菲纳化工有限公司                      123.4% （Iofina Chemical，Inc.） 2.其他美国公司                            123.4% 日本公司： 所有日本公司                              41.1% 二、复审调查期 本次复审的倾销调查期为2022年7月1日至2023年6月30日，产业损害调查期为2019年1月1日至2023年6月30日。 三、复审调查产品范围 复审调查产品范围是原反倾销措施所适用的产品，与商务部2018年第80号公告公布的反倾销措施所适用的产品范围一致，具体如下: 中文名称：氢碘酸，又称碘化氢。 英文名称：Hydriodic Acid，Hydroiodic Acid或Hydrogen Iodide，简称HI。 化学分子式：HI。 化学结构式： 产品描述：氢碘酸是碘化氢的水溶液，新鲜时为无色或淡黄色液体，在空气和日光下很快析出碘而变为棕褐色。分子量为127.91，常压下沸点在100℃－130℃之间，熔点范围在-50.8℃－0℃之间。具有强腐蚀性和强还原性，稀释的氢碘酸与许多金属（包括铝、锌、钙、镁、铁、锡和所有碱金属）反应产生易燃氢气，并与这些金属的氢氧化物、碳酸盐和盐反应产生金属碘化物。 主要用途：主要用于合成醋酸的催化剂、制备碘化物、还原氧化石墨烯、集成电路蚀刻剂、化学和医药中间体、消毒剂、染料及香料的原料、分析试剂等，是有机化学中重要的还原剂。 该产品归在《中华人民共和国进出口税则》：28111990。该税则号下除氢碘酸以外的其他产品不在本次被调查产品范围之内。 四、复审内容 本次复审调查的内容为：如果终止对原产于美国和日本的进口氢碘酸实施的反倾销措施，是否可能导致倾销和损害继续或再度发生。 五、登记参加调查 利害关系方可于本公告发布之日起20日内，向商务部贸易救济调查局登记参加本次反倾销期终复审调查。参加调查的利害关系方应根据《登记参加调查的参考格式》提供基本身份信息、向中国出口或进口本案被调查产品的数量及金额、生产和销售同类产品的数量及金额以及关联情况等说明材料。《登记参加调查的参考格式》可在商务部网站贸易救济调查局子网站下载。 利害关系方登记参加本次反倾销调查，应通过“贸易救济调查信息化平台”（https://etrb.mofcom.gov.cn）提交电子版本，并根据商务部的要求，同时提交书面版本。电子版本和书面版本内容应相同，格式应保持一致。 本公告所称的利害关系方是指《中华人民共和国反倾销条例》第十九条规定的个人和组织。 六、查阅公开信息 利害关系方可在商务部网站贸易救济调查局子网站下载或到商务部贸易救济公开信息查阅室（电话：0086-10-65197856）查找、阅览、抄录并复印本案申请人提交的申请书的非保密文本。调查过程中，利害关系方可通过相关网站查询案件公开信息，或到商务部贸易救济公开信息查阅室查找、阅览、抄录并复印案件公开信息。 七、对立案的评论 利害关系方对本次调查的产品范围及申请人资格、被调查国家及其他相关问题如需发表评论，可于本公告发布之日起20天内将书面意见提交至商务部贸易救济调查局。 八、调查方式 根据《中华人民共和国反倾销条例》第二十条规定，商务部可以采用问卷、抽样、听证会、现场核查等方式向有关利害关系方了解情况，进行调查。 为获得本案调查所需要的信息，商务部通常在本公告规定的登记参加调查截止之日起10个工作日内向利害关系方发放调查问卷。利害关系方可以从商务部网站贸易救济调查局子网站下载调查问卷。 利害关系方应在规定时间内提交完整、准确的答卷，应当包括调查问卷所要求的全部信息。 九、信息的提交和处理 利害关系方在调查过程中提交评论意见、答卷等，应通过“贸易救济调查信息化平台”（https://etrb.mofcom.gov.cn）提交电子版本，并根据商务部的要求，同时提交书面版本。电子版本和书面版本内容应相同，格式应保持一致。 利害关系方向商务部提交的信息如需保密的，可向商务部提出对相关信息进行保密处理的请求并说明理由。如商务部同意其请求，申请保密的利害关系方应同时提供该保密信息的非保密概要。非保密概要应当包含充分的有意义的信息，以使其他利害关系方对保密信息能有合理理解。如不能提供非保密概要，应说明理由。如利害关系方提交的信息未说明需要保密的，商务部将视该信息为公开信息。 十、不合作的后果 根据《中华人民共和国反倾销条例》第二十一条规定，商务部进行调查时，利害关系方应当如实反映情况，提供有关资料。利害关系方不如实反映情况、提供有关资料的，或者没有在合理时间内提供必要信息的，或者以其他方式严重妨碍调查的，商务部可以根据已经获得的事实和可获得的最佳信息作出裁定。 十一、调查期限 本次调查自2023年10月16日开始，应于2024年10月16日前（不含本日）结束。 十二、商务部联系方式 地址：中国北京市东长安街2号 邮编：100731 商务部贸易救济调查局 进口调查一处 电话：0086-10-65198176、65198435 传真：0086-10-65198172 网站：商务部网站贸易救济调查局子网站（http://trb.mofcom.gov.cn） 中华人民共和国商务部 2023年10月15日 氢碘酸反倾销措施期终复审调查申请书（公开文本及附件）.pdf 氢碘酸反倾销措施期终复审登记参加调查的参考格式.wps
input_url: 20231016052714/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202310/20231003446024.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20231015052825/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202310/20231003446024.shtml
date: 2023-10-16 00:00:00
translated_title: Announcement of the Ministry of Commerce on the Launching of End-of-Term Review Investigation on Anti-Dumping Measures Applied to Imports of Hydriodic Acid Originating in the United States and Japan
translated_content: On October 15, 2018, the Ministry of Commerce ("MOFCOM") issued Announcement No. 80 of 2018, deciding to impose anti-dumping duties on imports of hydriodic acid originating from the United States and Japan at the rates of 123.4% in the United States and 41.1% in Japan from October 16, 2018, with an implementation period of five years. On August 11, 2023, MOFCOM received an application for end-of-period review of anti-dumping measures submitted by Tai'an Hanwei Group Co. on behalf of the domestic hydriodic acid industry. The applicant claimed that if the anti-dumping measures were terminated, the dumping of imported hydriodic acid originating from the United States and Japan on China might continue or reoccur, and the damages to the Chinese industry might continue or reoccur, and requested MOFCOM to conduct an end-of-period review investigation of imported hydriodic acid originating from the United States and Japan, and to maintain the anti-dumping measures imposed on the imported hydriodic acid originating from the United States and Japan. In accordance with the relevant provisions of the Regulations of the People's Republic of China on Anti-Dumping, the Ministry of Commerce reviewed the qualifications of the applicant, the situation of the investigated products and similar products in China, the imports of the investigated products during the period of the implementation of the anti-dumping measures, the possibility of the continuation or recurrence of dumping, the possibility of the continuation or recurrence of the injury, and the relevant evidence. The available evidence shows that the applicant meets the requirements of Articles 11, 13 and 17 of the Regulations of the People's Republic of China on Anti-Dumping regarding the industry and its representation, and that it is qualified to file the application on behalf of the Chinese hydriodic acid industry. The Investigating Authority is of the view that the applicant's claims and the prima facie evidence submitted meet the requirements for filing a final review case. In accordance with Article 48 of the Anti-Dumping Regulations of the People's Republic of China, the Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) has decided to conduct a final review investigation, commencing on October 16, 2023, into the anti-dumping measures applied to imports of hydriodic acid originating in the United States and Japan. The relevant matters are hereby announced as follows: I. Continuation of anti-dumping measures Based on the recommendation of the Ministry of Commerce, the Customs Tariff Commission of the State Council has decided to continue to impose anti-dumping duties on the imported hydriodic acid originating from the United States and Japan in accordance with the scope of the levied products and the duty rate published in the Ministry of Commerce's Announcement No. 80 of 2018, during the period of the end-of-period review investigation of the anti-dumping measures. The anti-dumping duty rates imposed on the companies are as follows: U.S. companies: 1. Iofina Chemical, Inc. 123.4% (Iofina Chemical, Inc.) 2. Other U.S. companies 123.4% Japanese companies: All Japanese companies 41.1% II. Review investigation period The dumping investigation period for this review is from July 1, 2022 to June 30, 2023, and the industrial The review investigation period is from July 1, 2022 to June 30, 2023 for dumping investigation and from January 1, 2019 to June 30, 2023 for industrial injury investigation. III. Scope of products under review investigation The scope of products under review investigation is the products to which the original anti-dumping measures apply, and is consistent with the scope of products to which the anti-dumping measures announced by the Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) in Announcement No. 80 of 2018 apply, as follows: Chinese name: Hydriodic acid, also known as hydrogen iodide. English name: Hydriodic Acid, Hydroiodic Acid or Hydrogen Iodide, abbreviated as HI. Chemical molecular formula: HI. Chemical structural formula: Product description: Hydriodic Acid is an aqueous solution of Hydrogen Iodide, which is a colorless or yellowish liquid when fresh, and quickly precipitates iodine in air and sunlight and becomes brownish. Molecular weight is 127.91, boiling point under normal pressure is between 100℃-130℃, melting point range is between -50.8℃-0℃. Strongly corrosive and strongly reducing, dilute hydriodic acid reacts with many metals (including aluminum, zinc, calcium, magnesium, iron, tin and all alkali metals) to produce flammable hydrogen, and reacts with the hydroxides, carbonates and salts of these metals to produce metal iodides. Main uses: It is mainly used as catalyst for synthesizing acetic acid, preparing iodide, reducing graphene oxide, etching agent for integrated circuits, chemical and pharmaceutical intermediates, disinfectants, raw materials for dyes and spices, analytical reagents, etc. It is an important reducing agent in organic chemistry. This product is categorized in the "Import and Export Tariff Code of the People's Republic of China": 28111990. other than hydriodic acid under this tariff number, other products are not within the scope of the investigated products. The content of this review investigation is whether the termination of the anti-dumping measures imposed on imports of hydriodic acid originating in the United States and Japan is likely to lead to the continuation or re-occurrence of dumping and injury. V. Registration to participate in the investigation Stakeholders can register with the Trade Remedy Bureau of the Ministry of Commerce to participate in the anti-dumping final review investigation within 20 days from the date of publication of this announcement. The interested party shall provide basic identity information, the quantity and amount of products exported or imported to China, the quantity and amount of similar products produced and sold, and related materials according to the "Reference Format for Registration for Participation in the Investigation". The Reference Form for Registration to Participate in the Investigation can be downloaded from the sub-site of the Trade Remedy Investigation Bureau on the website of the Ministry of Commerce. Stakeholders registering to participate in the anti-dumping investigation shall submit an electronic version through the "Trade Remedy Investigation Informationization Platform" (https://etrb.mofcom.gov.cn) and a written version at the same time according to the requirements of the Ministry of Commerce. The contents of the electronic version and the written version shall be the same and the format shall be consistent. The stakeholders referred to in this Notice are the individuals and organizations specified in Article 19 of the Anti-Dumping Regulations of the People's Republic of China. Interested parties may download from the sub-site of the Trade Remedy Investigation Bureau on the website of the Ministry of Commerce or go to the Trade Remedy Public Information Inspection Room of the Ministry of Commerce (Tel: 0086-10-65197856) to find, read, copy and photocopy the non-confidential text of the application submitted by the applicant in this case. During the process of investigation, interested parties may inquire the public information of the case through the relevant website, or go to the Trade Remedy Public Information Inspection Room of the Ministry of Commerce to find, read, transcribe and copy the public information of the case. Comments on the case Stakeholders who wish to comment on the scope of the products under investigation, the eligibility of the applicant, the country under investigation and other related issues may submit their written comments to the Trade Remedies Bureau of the Ministry of Commerce within 20 days from the date of publication of this announcement. According to Article 20 of the Anti-Dumping Regulations of the People's Republic of China, the Ministry of Commerce may use questionnaires, sampling, hearings, on-site verification and other means to understand the situation from the relevant stakeholders to carry out investigations. In order to obtain the information required for the investigation of this case, MOFCOM usually issues questionnaires to stakeholders within 10 working days from the deadline for registration to participate in the investigation as stipulated in this announcement. Stakeholders can download the questionnaire from the sub-site of the Trade Remedies Investigation Bureau on the MOFCOM website. Stakeholders shall submit complete and accurate answer sheets within the prescribed time, which shall include all the information required by the questionnaire. Submission and Processing of Information Stakeholders submitting comments, answer sheets, etc. in the course of the investigation shall submit the electronic version through the Trade Remedy Investigation Informationization Platform (https://etrb.mofcom.gov.cn), and submit the written version at the same time in accordance with the requirements of the Ministry of Commerce. The content of the electronic version and the written version shall be the same and the format shall be consistent. If the information submitted by the interested party to the MOFCOM needs to be kept confidential, the interested party may make a request to the MOFCOM for confidential treatment of the relevant information and state the reasons. If MOFCOM grants the request, the interested party applying for confidentiality shall at the same time provide a non-confidential summary of the confidential information. The non-confidential summary should contain sufficient meaningful information to enable other stakeholders to have a reasonable understanding of the confidential information. If a non-confidential summary cannot be provided, a reason should be given. If a stakeholder submits information that does not state that it needs to be kept confidential, MOFCOM will treat the information as public. X. Consequences of Non-cooperation According to Article 21 of the Regulations of the People's Republic of China on Anti-Dumping, when MOFCOM conducts an investigation, the interested party shall truthfully reflect the situation and provide relevant information. If the interested party fails to reflect the situation truthfully and provide relevant information, or fails to provide the necessary information within a reasonable period of time, or seriously obstructs the investigation in other ways, MOFCOM may make a ruling based on the facts already obtained and the best available information. XI. Duration of the Investigation The investigation started on October 16, 2023, and shall be concluded by October 16, 2024 (excluding this date). XII. Contact Information of the Ministry of Commerce Address: No. 2, East Chang'an Street, Beijing, China Zip Code: 100731 Trade Remedy Investigation Bureau of the Ministry of Commerce Import Investigation Division 1 Tel: 0086-10-65198176, 65198435 Fax: 0086-10-65198172 Web Site: Sub-site of the Trade Remedy Investigation Bureau on the website of the Ministry of Commerce (http://trb. mofcom.gov.cn) Ministry of Commerce of the People's Republic of China October 15, 2023 Application for Investigation for End-of-Term Review of Anti-Dumping Measures on Hydrogen Iodic Acid (Open Text and Attachments).pdf Reference Format for Registration for Participation in the Investigation for End-of-Term Review of Anti-Dumping Measures on Hydrogen Iodic Acid.wps
english_summary: On October 16, 2018, the Ministry of Commerce of the People's Republic of China (MOFCOM) imposed anti-dumping duties on imports of hydriodic acid originating from the United States and Japan. On August 11, 2023, Tai'an Hanwei Group Co. applied for an end-of-term review investigation on the anti-dumping measures. The Ministry of Commerce conducted an end-of-term review investigation, deciding to maintain the anti-dumping measures imposed on the imported hydriodic acid of the United States and Japan.
