html: nan
title: 国家禁毒委员会办公室发布通告 提醒相关企业和个人谨慎销售可制毒物品
resulting_text: 为依法加强对麻醉药品和精神药品、制毒物品的管控，国家禁毒委员会办公室11月16日向全社会发布《国家禁毒委员会办公室通告》。 《通告》共十二条，归纳了《中华人民共和国刑法》《中华人民共和国禁毒法》《中华人民共和国海关法》《易制毒化学品进出口管理规定》等法律法规对麻醉药品和精神药品、制毒物品的管控规定，以及针对邮政、快递企业、物流企业及其他单位和个人关于防范麻醉药品和精神药品、制毒物品违法犯罪的相关规定，以提醒相关企业和广大群众在从事经营活动时遵守国家相关法律法规，预防制贩走私麻醉药品和精神药品、制毒物品违法犯罪，同时防范因销售非列管化学品和相关设备，被境外执法机构“长臂管辖”“钓鱼执法”风险，维护我国企业和公民合法权益。 国家禁毒委员会办公室通告 为依法加强对麻醉药品和精神药品、制毒物品的管控，保护我国企业和公民的合法权益，提醒相关企业和广大群众在从事经营活动时遵守国家相关法律法规规定，现将有关事项通告如下： 1.根据《中华人民共和国刑法》第350条之规定，严禁任何组织和个人非法生产、买卖、运输醋酸酐、乙醚、三氯甲烷或其他用于制造毒品的原料、配剂，或者携带上述物品进出境。严禁任何组织和个人明知他人制造毒品而为其生产、买卖、运输前款规定的物品。 2.根据《中华人民共和国刑法》相关规定，明知他人将使用某种非列管化学品及设备非法制造麻醉药品或精神药品而仍然为其生产、销售、运输或进出口非列管化学品及设备的，按照制造毒品犯罪共犯论处。 3.根据《中华人民共和国禁毒法》第21条之规定，严禁任何组织和个人非法生产、买卖、运输、储存、提供、持有、使用麻醉药品、精神药品和易制毒化学品。 4.根据《中华人民共和国海关法》相关规定，运输、携带、邮寄国家禁止或者限制进出境货物、物品或者依法应当缴纳税款的货物、物品进出境的，是走私行为，构成犯罪的，依法追究刑事责任；进出口货物、物品或者过境、转运货物向海关申报不实的，可以处以罚款，有违法所得的，没收违法所得。 5.根据《易制毒化学品进出口管理规定》第47条之规定，严禁任何组织和个人未经许可或超出许可范围进出口易制毒化学品，严禁个人携带第一类易制毒化学品中的药品类易制毒化学品药品制剂和高锰酸钾以外的易制毒化学品进出境。个人携带第一类易制毒化学品中的药品类易制毒化学品药品制剂和高锰酸钾进出境的，应当以自用且数量合理为限，并接受海关监管。 6.邮政、快递企业和物流企业发现非法邮寄、运输、夹带疑似麻醉药品或精神药品、易制毒化学品等制毒原料或配剂的，应当立即向公安机关或者海关报告，并配合公安机关或者海关进行调查。邮政、快递企业和物流企业应当如实记录或者保存上述信息。 7.明知某种非列管化学品已在有关国家被列为毒品或易制毒化学品进行管制，仍然向该国销售、运输、出口的，将可能面临该国执法部门的刑事指控或制裁。 8.涉及美国管制化学品（品种详见附件）的生产、经营、进出口企业和个人应谨慎对待来自美国和墨西哥等相关国家的订单，警惕出口物品被用于制造毒品和可能面临的“长臂管辖”甚至“钓鱼执法”的风险。 9.压片机设备及模具的生产、经营、进出口企业和个人应谨慎对待来自美国和墨西哥的订单，防止流入非法渠道，防范被“钓鱼执法”或制裁风险。 10.相关企业和个人要增强法律意识，对既有合法用途又可用于制毒的非列管化学品及相关设备，出口时应密切关注相关进口国特别是美国和墨西哥等高风险国家的法律法规，要求进口企业根据本国法律法规履行进口法律程序，防范法律风险。 11.相关企业和个人在对外贸易中，如发现上述相关可疑订单，应及时报告所在地公安机关和相关主管部门，配合查清事实。 12.相关企业和个人如遇外国执法部门“钓鱼执法”等不法侵害，可充分运用法律手段维护自身安全与合法权益。如在境外受到人身侵害，可通过我驻外使领馆寻求外交部门领事保护。 特此通告。
input_url: 20231117204225/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202311/20231103454384.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20231117052948/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202311/20231103454384.shtml
date: 2023-11-18 00:00:00
translated_title: The Office of the National Narcotics Control Commission issued a circular reminding relevant enterprises and individuals to be cautious in selling drug-formulating substances.
translated_content: In order to strengthen the control of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, as well as drug-producing substances in accordance with the law, the Office of the National Narcotics Control Commission issued a Circular of the Office of the National Narcotics Control Commission to the whole society on November 16th. The Circular consists of 12 articles, summarizing the provisions of the Criminal Law of the People's Republic of China, the Anti-Narcotics Law of the People's Republic of China, the Customs Law of the People's Republic of China, the Provisions on the Administration of the Import and Export of Readily-Acceptable Drug Chemicals and other laws and regulations on the control of narcotic drugs and psychotropic drugs, and drug-producing substances, as well as relevant provisions for the prevention of narcotic drugs and psychotropic drugs, and drug-producing substances for postal, express delivery and logistic enterprises, as well as for other units and individuals.  At the same time, it prevents the risk of being subjected to "long-arm jurisdiction" and "phishing" by overseas law enforcement agencies due to the sale of non-regulated chemicals and related equipment, and safeguards the legitimate rights and interests of enterprises and citizens in China. Circular of the Office of the National Narcotics Control Commission In order to strengthen the control of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and drug manufacturing substances in accordance with the law, to protect the legitimate rights and interests of our enterprises and citizens, and to remind the relevant enterprises and the general public to abide by the relevant laws and regulations of the State when engaging in business activities, we hereby notify you of the following relevant matters: 1. producing, trading, transporting acetic anhydride, ether, trichloromethane or other raw materials or preparations used in the manufacture of narcotics, or bringing the above items into or out of the country. It is strictly prohibited for any organization or individual to produce, trade or transport the articles stipulated in the preceding paragraph for another person, knowing that he or she is manufacturing drugs. 2. According to the relevant provisions of the Criminal Law of the People's Republic of China, anyone who produces, sells, transports or imports or exports non-regulated chemicals and equipment for another person, knowing that the latter will use such chemicals and equipment to illegally manufacture narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances, shall be dealt with as an accomplice to the crime of drug manufacturing. 3. In accordance with article 21 of the Law of the People's Republic of China on Narcotics Control, it is strictly prohibited for any organization or individual to illegally produce, trade in, transport, stockpile, supply, possess or use narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and easy-to-use drug chemicals. 4. According to the relevant provisions of the Customs Law of the People's Republic of China, transporting, carrying or mailing goods or articles prohibited or restricted by the State from entering or leaving the country or goods or articles subject to taxes in accordance with the law to enter or leave the country is an act of smuggling, and if it constitutes a crime, it shall be held criminally liable in accordance with the law; and anyone who imports, exports or in-transit or transshipment of goods and articles that are inaccurately declared to the Customs may be fined, and if he or she has any illegal proceeds, he or she shall confiscate If there is any illegal income, the illegal income shall be confiscated. 5. According to Article 47 of the Provisions on the Administration of the Import and Export of Chemical Substances, it is strictly prohibited for any organization or individual to import or export chemical substances without authorization or in excess of the scope of authorization, and it is strictly prohibited for individuals to bring in or out of the country chemical substances other than pharmaceutical preparations of drug substance-type chemical substances in the first category of drug substance-type chemical substances and potassium permanganate. Individuals who bring in or out pharmaceutical preparations and potassium permanganate, which are among the first category of drug-eligible chemicals, should limit themselves to self-use in reasonable quantities and accept Customs' supervision. 6. Postal and express delivery enterprises and logistics enterprises shall immediately report to the public security authorities or the Customs and cooperate with the public security authorities or the Customs in their investigations if they find illegal mailing, transportation or entrapment of suspected narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances, easy-to-fabricate chemicals and other raw materials or preparations for the production of narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances. Postal, express delivery enterprises and logistics enterprises shall truthfully record or save the above information. 7. Those who know that a certain non-listed chemical has been classified as a drug or a vulnerable chemical for control in the relevant country, and still sell, transport or export it to that country, may face criminal charges or sanctions from the law enforcement authorities of that country. 8. Production, operation, import and export enterprises and individuals involved in U.S.-controlled chemicals (see the Annex for details of varieties) should be cautious of orders from the U.S. and Mexico and other relevant countries, and be alert to the risk of exporting items used in the manufacture of drugs and possibly facing "long-arm jurisdiction" or even "phishing" law enforcement. "Risks. 9. Tablet press equipment and mold production, operation, import and export enterprises and individuals should be careful with orders from the United States and Mexico, to prevent the flow of illegal channels to guard against the risk of being "fishing law enforcement" or sanctions. 10. Relevant enterprises and individuals should enhance legal awareness, both for legal purposes and can be used for drug production of non-scheduled chemicals and related equipment, exports should pay close attention to the relevant importing countries, especially the United States and Mexico and other high-risk countries, laws and regulations, require importing enterprises in accordance with national laws and regulations to fulfill the legal procedures for imports, to guard against legal risks. 11. Relevant enterprises and individuals in foreign trade, such as the discovery of the above related suspicious orders, should be promptly reported to the local public security organs and the relevant competent authorities to cooperate in the investigation of the facts. 12. Relevant enterprises and individuals can fully utilize legal means to safeguard their own safety and legitimate rights and interests in case of "fishing law enforcement" and other unlawful infringements by foreign law enforcement authorities. If they are victimized outside the country, they can seek consular protection from the diplomatic department through our embassies and consulates abroad. This notice is hereby issued.
english_summary: The Office of the National Narcotics Control Commission issued a circular reminding relevant enterprises and individuals to be cautious in selling drug-formulating substances in order to strengthen control of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and drug-producing substances, as well as to protect the legitimate rights and interests of enterprises and citizens in China and prevent the risk of "long-arm jurisdiction" and "phishing" by overseas law enforcement agencies due to the sale of non-regulated chemicals and related equipment.
