html: nan
title: 耿协威经商参赞拜会东外交与合作部双边总司长
resulting_text: 4月5日，耿协威经商参赞拜会东外交与合作部新任双边总司长阿劳霍，就深化双边经贸关系、加强务实交流合作等事项交换意见。李智博三秘陪同参加会见。 耿参对阿劳霍总司长履新表示祝贺，向其介绍了中东经贸交流合作情况。耿参指出，近年来，中东经贸合作克服新冠肺炎疫情影响，稳中向好，双边贸易规模持续扩大，合作范围不断拓展，领域日益深化，充分展现了强大的发展韧性与活力。 耿参表示，中国市场规模大、消费潜力足，中方愿充分发挥中葡论坛、进口博览会和广交会等多双边经贸机制和平台作用，推动对东实施98%税目产品零关税待遇，支持东共享中国发展机遇和市场红利。中方将一如既往与东方共同推动高质量共建“一带一路”，进一步发挥对东发展援助综合效应，助力东经济社会全方位发展。 阿劳霍总司长感谢中方长期以来给予东各领域发展的大力支持与帮助，并表示当前东正积极申请加入东盟和世贸组织，经济社会发展处于关键期，愿与中方进一步加强政策沟通、深化务实合作，推动中东双边关系平稳健康发展。 会见后，耿参向阿劳霍总司长赠送了“一带一路”故事丛书--《共同梦想》。
input_url: 20230406174242/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202304/20230403401600.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230518114224/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202304/20230403401600.shtml
date: 2023-04-07 00:00:00
translated_title: Mr. Geng Xiewei, Counselor for Economic and Commercial Affairs, called on the Director General of Bilateral Affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation.
translated_content: On April 5, Mr. Geng Xiewei, Economic and Commercial Counselor, called on Mr. Araujo, the new Bilateral Director General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of the East, and exchanged views on matters such as deepening bilateral economic and trade relations and strengthening pragmatic exchanges and cooperation. Mr. Li Zhibo, Third Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, accompanied him in the meeting. Mr. Geng congratulated Mr. Araujo on his assumption of his new post and introduced to him the situation of economic and trade exchanges and cooperation in the Middle East. Mr. Geng pointed out that in recent years, the economic and trade cooperation in the Middle East has overcome the impact of the epidemic of new coronavirus, and has been improving steadily, with the scale of bilateral trade continuing to expand, the scope of cooperation expanding, and the fields deepening, which fully demonstrated the strong development tenacity and vitality. Geng said, China's large market, consumption potential, China is willing to give full play to the Sino-Portuguese Forum, Import Expo and Canton Fair and other multi-bilateral economic and trade mechanisms and platforms, to promote the implementation of the East of 98% of the tariff lines of the products of the zero-tariff treatment, to support the East to share the opportunities of China's development and market dividends. China will, as always, work with the East to promote the high-quality construction of the "Belt and Road", and further give full play to the integrated effect of development assistance to the East to help the East's all-round economic and social development. Mr. Araujo thanked China for its long-term support and assistance to the East in various fields of development, and said that the East is now actively applying for ASEAN and WTO membership, and its economic and social development is at a critical stage, so he is willing to further strengthen policy communication and deepen pragmatic cooperation with China, and to push forward the stable and healthy development of bilateral relations in the Middle East. After the meeting, Mr. Geng presented the book series of "Belt and Road" stories - "Common Dream" to Mr. Araujo.
english_summary: On April 5, Mr. Geng Xiewei, the Economic and Commercial Counselor, called on Mr. Araujo, the new Bilateral Director General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of the East, and exchanged views on matters such as deepening bilateral economic and trade relations and strengthening pragmatic exchanges and cooperation. Mr. Li Zhibo, Third Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, accompanied him in the meeting.
