html: nan
title: 商务部办公厅关于开展2023年全国中小微商贸企业“创特色、创品质、创品牌”活动月的通知
resulting_text: 商务部办公厅关于开展2023年全国中小微商贸企业 “创特色、创品质、创品牌”活动月的通知 商办建函〔2023〕487号 各省、自治区、直辖市及计划单列市、新疆生产建设兵团商务主管部门： 为贯彻落实党的二十大关于支持中小微企业发展的部署要求，促进中小微商贸企业不断发展，商务部将于2023年11月组织开展2023年全国中小微商贸企业“创特色、创品质、创品牌”活动月（以下简称活动月），现将有关事项通知如下： 一、总体考虑 以推动中小微商贸企业健康发展为目标，以 “创特色、创品质、创品牌” （以下简称“三创”）为主题，组织开展“1+3”系列活动，引导支持中小微商贸企业围绕提供高品质生活服务和专业化生产服务两个方向，发掘细分市场潜力，拓展经营服务范围，提升创新能力和专业化水平，更好实现特色化、品质化、品牌化发展。 引导中小微商贸企业创特色， 提供个性化、多元化商品和服务，聚焦产业链细分环节提供专业化、精细化配套服务，积极应用新技术新业态新模式、发掘地域特色和文化元素，打造特色竞争优势。 引导中小微商贸企业创品质， 坚持质量第一、诚信经营，完善服务标准和规范，传承创新商业传统技艺，增强员工技能培训和职业精神，以增品质、提品味在细分市场保持优势。 引导中小微商贸企业创品牌， 增强品牌意识，塑造品牌文化，讲好品牌故事，推动商业领域“小而美”“小而优”“小而专”服务精品不断涌现，促进中小微商贸企业整体发展质量稳步提高。 二、活动安排 （一）召开视频动员会。 商务部将于10月下旬组织各地商务主管部门、有关协会召开全国中小微商贸企业“三创”活动月视频动员会（具体安排另行通知），组织学习党中央、国务院关于支持中小微企业发展的决策部署，动员各地区认真开展活动月各项活动，为中小微商贸企业“三创”发展营造良好环境。 （二）开展主题活动。 1. “三创”发展调查走访活动。 组织中小微商贸企业“三创”发展能力问卷调查。鼓励各地建立中小微商贸企业“三创”发展联系服务机制，按照企业自愿、统筹选择、定期调整的原则，选取本地不同规模、不同行业、在“三创”发展上具备代表性的中小微商贸企业作为“三创”工作联系点。结合工作实际，采取干部包联、定期走访等形式，加强与企业的日常联系，帮助企业协调解决实际问题，通过联系点及时掌握了解本地、相关行业中小微商贸企业“三创”发展情况，为提高政策针对性、提升为企服务水平提供参考。 2. “三创”企业发现推广活动。 发挥商协会、平台企业、媒体机构等作用，以重点商圈、商品市场、商务楼宇、便民生活圈、线上平台等商贸集聚区为载体，开展“三创”中小微商贸企业发现推广活动，采取评选评价、探店发布等形式宣传推广，集中宣传一批“小而美”“小而优”“小而特”优质企业。 3.“三创”服务机构赋能活动。 围绕服务中小微商贸企业“三创”发展，从商协会、商业院校、各类中小企业服务平台、大型商贸企业、互联网平台企业等单位中，联系选择一批综合实力强、市场覆盖广、服务质量好、企业评价优的“三创”服务机构。采取发布服务赋能项目、组织服务对接活动、开展服务培训指导等形式，组织“三创”服务机构为中小微商贸企业提供人才培养、品牌培育、数字化转型、市场开拓、融资支持等方面服务。 三、有关要求 （一）加强组织协调。 各级商务主管部门要将支持中小微商贸企业发展作为商业繁荣、行业发展、服务民生的重要基础，协调推动相关行业协会、商业院校、服务机构、企业等积极参与活动，调动中小微商贸企业积极性，共同开展好“三创”活动。要结合活动组织，积极探索建立“三创”中小微商贸企业发现培育机制，完善服务支持举措。严格落实安全生产相关要求，确保活动月各项活动安全平稳有序。 （二）制定活动方案。 鼓励各地按照活动主题，因地制宜筹划相关活动安排，丰富活动内容、创新活动形式，充分利用各类媒体和宣传平台加强活动宣传。请各省级商务主管部门按照活动主题，结合本地实际制定活动方案，策划服务活动，于10月27日前将活动月计划表（附件1）报送商务部（市场建设司）。 （三）做好总结推广。 请各省级商务主管部门于12月7日前将本地活动月总结报送商务部（市场建设司），并分三个层面做好典型案例的总结提炼， 一是 择优推荐5个以内地方政府推动中小微商贸企业“三创”发展的典型案例； 二是 择优推荐10个以内中小微商贸企业“三创”发展典型案例； 三是 择优推荐5个以内服务机构赋能中小微商贸企业“三创”发展典型案例。商务部将加强典型案例的宣传推广，发挥好典型案例的引导带动作用，以“三创”促进中小微商贸企业持续健康发展。 联 系 人：市场建设司 徐昊航 流通促进中心 尹斌 联系电话：010-85093746 010-83779123 传    真：010-85093695 010-83779127 邮    箱：xuhaohang@mofcom.gov.cn lczxltxfc@yeah.net 附件：1.中小微商贸企业“三创”活动月计划表 2.“三创”典型案例推荐模板 3.“三创”典型案例汇总表 商务部办公厅 2023年10月11日 附件“三创”活动月各地活动计划.docx 附件  典型案例汇总表.wps
input_url: 20231102210950/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkgztz/202310/20231003449849.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20231031055032/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkgztz/202310/20231003449849.shtml
date: 2023-11-03 00:00:00
translated_title: Notice of the General Office of the Ministry of Commerce on the Month of "Creating Characteristics, Creating Quality, and Creating Brands" Activities for Small, Medium, and Micro Business Enterprises in China in 2023
translated_content: General Office of the Ministry of Commerce on the implementation of the 2023 national small and medium-sized micro business enterprises "create characteristics, quality, brand" activities of the month of the notice of the Ministry of Commerce Office of the construction letter [2023] No. 487 Provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the Central Government and municipalities, Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps, the competent departments of the Commerce Department: To implement the requirements of the twentieth CPC National Congress on the development of small and medium-sized micro enterprises, and promote the continuous development of small and medium-sized micro enterprises. To implement the requirements of the 20th CPC National Congress on the deployment of support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, and to promote the continuous development of small and medium-sized enterprises, the Ministry of Commerce will organize and carry out the 2023 National Small and Medium-sized Enterprises of Commerce and Trade in November 2023 "to create characteristics, quality and brand" activities (hereinafter referred to as the month of the activities), is hereby notified of the relevant matters as follows With the goal of promoting the healthy development of small, medium and micro commerce enterprises, and with the theme of "Creating Features, Creating Quality and Creating Brands" (hereinafter referred to as the "Three Creations"), a series of "1+3" activities will be organized to guide and support small, medium and micro commerce enterprises to focus on the provision of high-quality living environment. Micro, small and medium-sized commercial and trading enterprises are guided and supported to provide high-quality living services and specialized production services, explore market segmentation potential, expand the scope of business services, enhance innovation and professionalism, and better realize the development of characteristics, quality and brand. Guiding small, medium and micro commerce enterprises to create characteristics, provide personalized and diversified commodities and services, focus on industry chain segments to provide specialized and refined supporting services, actively apply new technologies and modes of business, and explore regional characteristics and cultural elements to create distinctive competitive advantages. Guiding small and medium-sized micro business enterprises to create quality, adhere to quality first, integrity management, improve service standards and norms, inheritance and innovation of traditional business techniques, enhance employee skills training and professionalism, in order to increase quality and improve taste to maintain an advantage in market segments. Guiding small, medium and micro business enterprises to create brands, enhancing brand awareness, shaping brand culture, telling good brand stories, and promoting "small and beautiful", "small and excellent" and "small and specialized" services in the commercial field. The activities will be organized to promote the emergence of "small but beautiful", "small but excellent" and "small but specialized" services in the commercial field, and to promote the steady improvement of the overall development quality of small and medium-sized micro and small businesses. Second, the activities of the arrangement (a) video mobilization meeting. The Ministry of Commerce will be organized in late October business departments around the relevant associations to convene the national small and medium-sized micro business enterprises "three" activities of the month video mobilization meeting (specific arrangements to be notified), organization and study of the CPC Central Committee, the State Council on the development of small and medium-sized micro business development decision-making and mobilization of the region to carry out activities in earnest the month of the activities for the Small and medium-sized micro business enterprises "three" development to create a favorable environment. (ii) Carry out thematic activities. 1. Survey and visit activities for the development of "Three Creations". Organize a questionnaire survey on the "three creations" development capability of MSMEs. Encourage localities to establish a contact service mechanism for the development of the "Three Creations" of small, medium and micro business enterprises, and select local small, medium and micro business enterprises of different sizes and industries that are representative of the development of the "Three Creations", in accordance with the principles of enterprise voluntariness, overall selection and regular adjustment. As the contact point of the "Three Creations" work, it selects local SMEs of different sizes and industries that are representative of the "Three Creations" development. In light of the actual work, cadres will be assigned to the contact points, and regular visits will be made to strengthen daily contact with the enterprises, help them coordinate and solve practical problems, and keep abreast of the development of the "Three Creations" of local small and medium-sized enterprises in the relevant industries through the contact points, so as to provide references for improving the pertinence of the policies and enhancing the level of services for the enterprises. 2. "Three Creations" enterprise discovery and promotion activities. Playing the roles of business associations, platform enterprises, media organizations, etc., and using key business districts, commodity markets, commercial buildings, convenient living areas, online platforms and other business and trade clusters as carriers, it will carry out activities for the discovery and promotion of "Three Creations" small, medium and micro businesses, and will take the forms of selection and evaluation, store visits and publication to publicize and promote, and focus on publicizing a batch of "small and beautiful" and "small and beautiful" businesses. "Small and beautiful", "small and excellent", "small and special" high-quality enterprises. 3. Empowerment activities of "Three Creations" service organizations. Focusing on serving the "Three Creations" development of small, medium and micro commerce and trade enterprises, a group of "Three Creations" service organizations with strong comprehensive strength, wide market coverage, good service quality and excellent enterprise evaluation will be contacted and selected from business associations, business colleges and universities, various small and medium-sized enterprise service platforms, large-scale commerce and trade enterprises, and Internet platform enterprises. "service organizations. In the form of releasing service-enabling projects, organizing service docking activities, and carrying out service training and guidance, the "Three Creations" service institutions will provide services for small and medium-sized micro business enterprises in talent cultivation, brand cultivation, digital transformation, market development, and financing support. (I) Strengthen the organization and coordination. The competent business departments at all levels should support the development of small and medium-sized micro business enterprises as an important basis for business prosperity, industry development, and service to people's livelihood, coordinate and promote the relevant industry associations, business colleges and universities, service institutions, enterprises, etc. to actively participate in the activities, mobilize small and medium-sized micro business enterprises to mobilize enthusiasm, and jointly carry out the "Three Creations" activities. In conjunction with the organization of the activities, we should actively explore the establishment of a mechanism for the discovery and cultivation of small, medium-sized and micro business enterprises in the "Three Creations", and improve the service and support initiatives. Strictly implement the requirements related to production safety, to ensure that the activities of the month of activities in a safe, smooth and orderly manner. (ii) Develop activity programs. Encourage localities to plan relevant activities in accordance with the theme of the activity, enrich the content and innovate the form of the activity, and make full use of all kinds of media and publicity platforms to strengthen the publicity of the activity. Please the provincial departments in charge of commerce in accordance with the theme of the activities, combined with local practice to develop activity programs, planning service activities, in October 27 before the activities of the monthly schedule (Annex 1) submitted to the Ministry of Commerce (Market Construction Division). (C) do a good job summarizing and promoting. Provincial business authorities are requested to submit the summary of the local activity month to the Ministry of Commerce (Department of Market Construction) before December 7, and do a good job in summarizing and refining the typical cases at three levels: first, recommending five or less typical cases of local governments promoting the development of "Three Creations" of SMEs and micro-enterprises on the basis of merit; second, recommending 10 or less typical cases of SMEs and micro-enterprises on the basis of merit; and third, recommending 10 or less typical cases of "Three Creations" of micro-enterprises. The Ministry of Commerce will strengthen the publicity of the typical cases. The Ministry of Commerce will strengthen the publicity and promotion of the typical cases, and give full play to the guiding and driving role of the typical cases, so as to promote the sustained and healthy development of small, medium and micro business enterprises through the "Three Creations". Contact Person: Xu Haohang, Market Construction Division Yin Bin, Circulation Promotion Center Tel: 010-85093746 010-83779123 Fax: 010-85093695 010-83779127 E-mail: xuhaohang@mofcom.gov.cn lczxltxfc@yeah.net Annexes: 1.The "Three Creations" of Small and Medium-sized Micro-enterprises Monthly schedule of "Three Creations" activities of small and medium-sized enterprises 2. Recommended template of typical cases of "Three Creations" 3. Summary table of typical cases of "Three Creations" General Office of the Ministry of Commerce October 11, 2023 Annexes Monthly Activity Plan of "Three Creations".docx Annex Summary Table of Typical Cases.wps
english_summary: The General Office of the Ministry of Commerce in China has announced a "Creating Characteristics, Creating Quality, and Creating Brands" activity month for small, medium, and micro business enterprises in 2023. The aim is to promote the healthy development of these enterprises, encourage them to focus on providing high-quality living services, and explore regional characteristics and cultural elements to create competitive advantages. The event will include various activities such as survey and visit activities for the development of "Three Creations," empowerment activities of "Three Creations" service organizations, and strengthening the organization and coordination. The month-long activities will run from November 2023, and the Ministry of Commerce will closely monitor the progress and provide guidance for the development of the "Three Creations" of small and medium-sized micro business enterprises.
