html: nan
title: 商务部公告2023年第55号 关于对原产于台湾地区、马来西亚和美国的进口正丁醇所适用的反倾销措施发起期终复审调查的公告
resulting_text: 2018年12月28日，商务部发布2018年第100号公告，决定自2018年12月29日起对原产于台湾地区、马来西亚和美国的进口正丁醇征收反倾销税，税率为台湾地区6.0%—56.1%，马来西亚12.7％—26.7％，美国52.2％—139.3％，实施期限5年。 2023年10月8日，商务部收到万华化学（烟台）石化有限公司等7家申请企业代表中国大陆正丁醇产业提交的反倾销措施期终复审申请书。申请人主张，如果终止反倾销措施，原产于台湾地区、马来西亚和美国的进口正丁醇对中国大陆的倾销可能继续或再度发生，对中国大陆产业造成的损害可能继续或再度发生，请求商务部对原产于台湾地区、马来西亚和美国的进口正丁醇进行期终复审调查，并维持对原产于台湾地区、马来西亚和美国的进口正丁醇实施的反倾销措施。 根据《中华人民共和国反倾销条例》有关规定，商务部对申请人资格、被调查产品和中国大陆同类产品有关情况、反倾销措施实施期间被调查产品进口情况、倾销继续或再度发生的可能性、损害继续或再度发生的可能性及相关证据等进行了审查。现有证据表明，申请人符合《中华人民共和国反倾销条例》第十一条、第十三条和第十七条关于产业及产业代表性的规定，有资格代表中国大陆正丁醇产业提出申请。调查机关认为，申请人的主张以及所提交的表面证据符合期终复审立案的要求。 根据《中华人民共和国反倾销条例》第四十八条规定，商务部决定自2023年12月29日起，对原产于台湾地区、马来西亚和美国的进口正丁醇所适用的反倾销措施进行期终复审调查。现将有关事项公告如下： 一、继续实施反倾销措施 根据商务部建议，国务院关税税则委员会决定，在反倾销措施期终复审调查期间，对原产于台湾地区、马来西亚和美国的进口正丁醇继续按照2018年第100号公告公布的征税产品范围和税率征收反倾销税。对各公司征收的反倾销税税率如下： 台湾地区公司 ： 1.台湾塑胶工业股份有限公司                                         6.0% （FORMOSA PLASTICS CORPORATION） 2.其他台湾地区公司                                                          56.1% 马来西亚公司： 1. 国油石化衍生公司/马石化营销（纳闽 ) 有限公司 12.7% (PETRONAS CHEMICALS DERIVATIVES SDN BHD)/〔PETRONAS CHEMICALS MARKETING(LABUAN) LTD〕 〔该税率仅适用于马石化营销（纳闽）有限公司向中国出口销售国油石化衍生公司所生产被调查产品〕 2.巴斯夫马来西亚国油化学私人有限公司                        26.7% （BASF PETRONAS Chemicals Sdn Bhd) 3.奥伯帝莫马来西亚化学公司                                            26.7% （Optimal Chemicals <Malaysia> Sdn Bhd） 4.其他马来西亚公司                                                             26.7% 美国公司： 1.欧季亚公司                                                                         52.2% （OXEA CORPORATION） 2.伊士曼化学公司                                                                139.3% （Eastman Chemical Company） 3.道化学公司                                                                        139.3% （The Dow Chemical Company） 4.巴斯夫公司                                                                        139.3% （BASF Corporation） 5.其他美国公司                                                                     139.3% 二、复审调查期 本次复审的倾销调查期为2022年7月1日至2023年6月30日，产业损害调查期为2019年1月1日至2023年6月30日。 三、复审调查产品范围 复审产品范围是原反倾销措施所适用的产品，与商务部2018年第100号公告公布的反倾销措施所适用的产品范围一致，具体如下: 中文名称：正丁醇，又称 1-丁醇、丙原醇、酪醇 英文名称：Butan-1-ol，又称 1-Butanol，N-Butanol，N-Butyl Alcohol 化学分子式：CH 3 (CH 2 ) 3 OH 化学结构式： 物理化学特性：正丁醇是一种有机化工产品，在外观上通常呈无色透明液体，有酒气味，易燃，微溶于水，能与乙醇、乙醚等其他多种有机溶剂混溶。 主要用途：正丁醇是重要的有机化工原料，主要用于生产丙烯酸丁酯、醋酸丁酯、邻苯二甲酸二丁酯、丁胺、乙二醇单丁醚等下游产品，广泛应用在涂料、粘胶剂、纺织助剂、增塑剂等领域。正丁醇还是油脂、生物化学药和香料的萃取剂，醇酸树脂涂料的添加剂，也用于制造表面活性剂等。同时，正丁醇也是优良的有机溶剂。 该产品归在《中华人民共和国进出口税则》：29051300。 四、复审内容 本次复审调查的内容为：如果终止对原产于台湾地区、马来西亚和美国的进口正丁醇实施的反倾销措施，是否可能导致倾销和损害继续或再度发生。 五、登记参加调查 利害关系方可于本公告发布之日起20日内，向商务部贸易救济调查局登记参加本次反倾销期终复审调查。参加调查的利害关系方应根据《登记参加调查的参考格式》提供基本身份信息、向中国大陆出口或进口本案被调查产品的数量及金额、生产和销售同类产品的数量及金额以及关联情况等说明材料。《登记参加调查的参考格式》可在商务部网站贸易救济调查局子网站下载。 利害关系方登记参加本次反倾销调查，应通过“贸易救济调查信息化平台”（https://etrb.mofcom.gov.cn） 提交电子版本，并根据商务部的要求，同时提交书面版本。电子版本和书面版本内容应相同，格式应保持一致。 本公告所称的利害关系方是指《中华人民共和国反倾销条例》第十九条规定的个人和组织。 六、查阅公开信息 利害关系方可在商务部网站贸易救济调查局子网站下载或到商务部贸易救济公开信息查阅室（电话：0086-10-65197856）查找、阅览、抄录并复印本案申请人提交的申请书的非保密文本。调查过程中，利害关系方可通过相关网站查询案件公开信息，或到商务部贸易救济公开信息查阅室查找、阅览、抄录并复印案件公开信息。 七、对立案的评论 利害关系方对本次调查的产品范围及申请人资格、被调查国家（地区）及其他相关问题如需发表评论，可于本公告发布之日起20天内将书面意见提交至商务部贸易救济调查局。 八、调查方式 根据《中华人民共和国反倾销条例》第二十条规定，商务部可以采用问卷、抽样、听证会、现场核查等方式向有关利害关系方了解情况，进行调查。 为获得本案调查所需要的信息，商务部通常在本公告规定的登记参加调查截止之日起10个工作日内向利害关系方发放调查问卷。利害关系方可以从商务部网站贸易救济调查局子网站下载调查问卷。 利害关系方应在规定时间内提交完整、准确的答卷，应当包括调查问卷所要求的全部信息。 九、信息的提交和处理 利害关系方在调查过程中提交评论意见、答卷等，应通过“贸易救济调查信息化平台”（https://etrb.mofcom.gov.cn）提交电子版本，并根据商务部的要求，同时提交书面版本。电子版本和书面版本内容应相同，格式应保持一致。 利害关系方向商务部提交的信息如需保密的，可向商务部提出对相关信息进行保密处理的请求并说明理由。如商务部同意其请求，申请保密的利害关系方应同时提供该保密信息的非保密概要。非保密概要应当包含充分的有意义的信息，以使其他利害关系方对保密信息能有合理理解。如不能提供非保密概要，应说明理由。如利害关系方提交的信息未说明需要保密的，商务部将视该信息为公开信息。 十、不合作的后果 根据《中华人民共和国反倾销条例》第二十一条的规定，商务部进行调查时，利害关系方应当如实反映情况，提供有关资料。利害关系方不如实反映情况、提供有关资料的，或者没有在合理时间内提供必要信息的，或者以其他方式严重妨碍调查的，商务部可以根据已经获得的事实和可获得的最佳信息作出裁定。 十一、调查期限 本次调查自2023年12月29日开始，应于2024年12月29日前（不含本日）结束。 十二、商务部联系方式 地址：北京市东长安街2号 邮编：100731 商务部贸易救济调查局 进口调查四处 电话：0086-10-65198194、65198474 传真：0086-10-65198172 网站：商务部网站贸易救济调查局子网站 （网址为trb.mofcom.gov.cn) 中华人民共和国商务部 2023年12月22日 附件： 正丁醇反倾销措施期终复审调查申请书（公开文本）- 正文.pdf 正丁醇反倾销措施期终复审调查申请书（公开文本）- 附件.pdf 正丁醇反倾销措施期终复审登记参加调查的参考格式.wps
input_url: 20231224001357/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202312/20231203462390.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20231222065128/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202312/20231203462390.shtml
date: 2023-12-24 00:00:00
translated_title: MOFCOM Announcement No. 55 of 2023 Announcement on the Initiation of End-of-Term Review Investigation on Anti-Dumping Measures Applied to Imports of N-Butanol Originating in Taiwan, Malaysia and the United States
translated_content: On December 28, 2018, the Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) issued Announcement No. 100 of 2018, deciding to impose anti-dumping duties on imports of n-butanol originating from Taiwan, Malaysia and the United States starting from December 29, 2018, with duty rates ranging from 6.0%-56.1% for Taiwan, 12.7%-26.7 percent in Taiwan, 12.7 percent to 26.7 percent in Malaysia, and 52.2 percent to 139.3 percent in the United States, with an implementation period of five years. On October 8, 2023, MOFCOM received an application for end-of-period review of the anti-dumping measures submitted by seven applicants, including Wanhua Chemical (Yantai) Petrochemical Company Limited, on behalf of the n-butanol industry in mainland China. The applicants claimed that if the anti-dumping measures are terminated, the dumping of imported n-butanol originating from Taiwan, Malaysia and the United States on the Chinese mainland may continue or reoccur, and the damages caused to the industry in the Chinese mainland may continue or reoccur, and requested that the MOFCOM conduct a final review of the investigation of imported n-butanol originating from Taiwan, Malaysia and the United States and maintain the anti-dumping measures imposed on imported n-butanol originating from Taiwan, Malaysia and the United States. The Ministry of Commerce is requested to conduct a final review investigation on the imports of n-butanol originating from Taiwan, Malaysia and the United States, and to maintain the anti-dumping measures on the imports of n-butanol originating from Taiwan, Malaysia and the United States. In accordance with the relevant provisions of the Anti-Dumping Regulations of the People's Republic of China, the Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) reviewed the applicant's qualifications, the situation of the investigated products and similar products in mainland China, the imports of the investigated products during the period of implementation of the anti-dumping measures, the likelihood of the continuation or recurrence of dumping, the likelihood of the continuation or recurrence of injury, and the relevant evidence. The available evidence indicates that the Applicant meets the requirements of Articles 11, 13 and 17 of the Anti-Dumping Regulations of the People's Republic of China regarding the industry and its representation, and that it is qualified to file the application on behalf of the n-butanol industry in mainland China. The Investigating Authority is of the view that the Applicant's claims and the prima facie evidence submitted meet the requirements for filing a final review case. In accordance with Article 48 of the Anti-Dumping Regulations of the People's Republic of China, the Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) has decided to conduct a final review investigation, commencing on December 29, 2023, into the anti-dumping measures applied to imports of n-butanol originating in Taiwan, Malaysia and the United States. The relevant matters are hereby announced as follows: I. Continuation of anti-dumping measures Based on the recommendation of the Ministry of Commerce, the Customs Tariff Commission of the State Council has decided to continue to impose anti-dumping duties on imported n-butanol originating from Taiwan, Malaysia and the United States according to the scope of dutiable products and the duty rate published in the Announcement No. 100 of 2018 during the period of the end-of-period review investigation of the anti-dumping measures. The anti-dumping duty rates imposed on the companies are as follows: Taiwan companies : 1. Taiwan Plastics Industry Corporation 6.0% (FORMOSA PLASTICS CORPORATION) 2. Other Taiwan companies 56.1% Malaysia companies : 1. Petronas Petrochemicals Derivatives Corporation/Malaysia Petrochemicals Marketing (Labuan ) Limited 12.7% (PETRONAS (PETRONAS CHEMICALS DERIVATIVES SDN BHD)/[PETRONAS CHEMICALS MARKETING(LABUAN) LTD] [This rate is only applicable to PETRONAS Marketing (Labuan) Sdn Bhd's export sales of investigated products manufactured by PETRONAS Petrochemicals Derivatives Sdn BHD to China] 2. BASF PETRONAS Chemicals Sdn Bhd 26.7% (BASF PETRONAS Chemicals Sdn Bhd) 3. Optimal Chemicals <Malaysia> Sdn Bhd 26.7% (Optimal Chemicals <Malaysia> Sdn Bhd) 4. Other Malaysian companies 26.7% U.S. companies: 1. OXEA 52.2% (OXEA CORPORATION) 2. Eastman Chemical Company 139.3% The Dow Chemical Company 139.3% BASF Corporation 139.3% Other U.S. companies 139.3% II. 139.3% II. Review Investigation Period The dumping investigation period of this review is from July 1, 2022 to June 30, 2023, and the industrial injury investigation period is from January 1, 2019 to June 30, 2023. III. Scope of products under review investigation The scope of products under review is the products to which the original anti-dumping measures apply, and is consistent with the scope of products to which the anti-dumping measures announced in the Ministry of Commerce's Announcement No. 100 of 2018 are applied, as follows: Chinese name: n-Butanol, also known as 1-Butanol, Propyl Alcohol, Tyrosol English name: Butan-1-ol, also known as 1-Butanol, N-Butanol, N-Butanol. N-Butyl Alcohol Chemical Molecular Formula: CH 3 (CH 2 ) 3 OH Chemical Structure Formula: Physical and Chemical Properties: n-Butanol is an organic chemical product, which is usually a colorless and transparent liquid in appearance, with the odor of wine, easily flammable, slightly soluble in water, and miscible with a variety of other organic solvents, such as ethanol and ether. Main uses: n-Butanol is an important organic chemical material, mainly used in the production of butyl acrylate, butyl acetate, dibutyl phthalate, butylamine, ethylene glycol monobutyl ether and other downstream products, widely used in coatings, adhesives, textile auxiliaries, plasticizers and other fields. N-butanol is also an extractant for oils and fats, biochemicals and spices, an additive for alkyd resin coatings, and is also used in the manufacture of surfactants and so on. Meanwhile, n-butanol is also an excellent organic solvent. The product is categorized in the "Import and Export Tariff Code of the People's Republic of China": 29051300. The content of the review The content of this review investigation is: if the termination of anti-dumping measures imposed on imports of n-butanol originating in Taiwan, Malaysia and the United States, whether it is likely to result in the continuation of dumping and injury or re-occurrence. V. Registration to participate in the investigation Stakeholders can register with the Trade Remedy Bureau of the Ministry of Commerce to participate in the anti-dumping final review investigation within 20 days from the date of publication of this announcement. The interested party shall provide basic identity information, the quantity and amount of products exported or imported to Mainland China, the quantity and amount of similar products produced and sold, as well as explanatory materials such as relevant information according to the "Reference Form for Registration for Participation in the Investigation". The Reference Form for Registration to Participate in the Investigation can be downloaded from the sub-site of the Trade Remedy Investigation Bureau on the website of the Ministry of Commerce. Stakeholders registering to participate in the anti-dumping investigation shall submit an electronic version through the "Informationization Platform for Trade Remedy Investigation" (https://etrb.mofcom.gov.cn), and submit a written version at the same time according to the requirements of the Ministry of Commerce. The contents of the electronic version and the written version shall be the same and the format shall be consistent. The stakeholders referred to in this Notice are the individuals and organizations specified in Article 19 of the Anti-Dumping Regulations of the People's Republic of China. Interested parties may download from the sub-site of the Trade Remedy Investigation Bureau on the website of the Ministry of Commerce or go to the Trade Remedy Public Information Inspection Room of the Ministry of Commerce (Tel: 0086-10-65197856) to find, read, copy and photocopy the non-confidential text of the application submitted by the applicant in this case. During the process of investigation, interested parties may inquire the public information of the case through the relevant website, or go to the Trade Remedy Public Information Inspection Room of the Ministry of Commerce to find, read, transcribe and copy the public information of the case. Comments on the case Stakeholders who wish to comment on the scope of the products under investigation, the eligibility of the applicant, the country (region) under investigation and other related issues may submit their written comments to the Trade Remedies Bureau of the Ministry of Commerce within 20 days from the date of publication of this announcement. Eight, the investigation method According to the "People's Republic of China Anti-Dumping Regulations" Article 20, the Ministry of Commerce may use questionnaires, sampling, hearings, on-site verification and other ways to the relevant stakeholders to understand the situation and conduct investigations. In order to obtain the information required for the investigation of this case, MOFCOM usually issues questionnaires to stakeholders within 10 working days from the deadline for registration to participate in the investigation as stipulated in this announcement. Stakeholders can download the questionnaire from the sub-site of the Trade Remedies Investigation Bureau on the MOFCOM website. Stakeholders shall submit complete and accurate answer sheets within the prescribed time, which shall include all the information required by the questionnaire. Submission and Processing of Information Stakeholders submitting comments, answer sheets, etc. in the course of the investigation shall submit the electronic version through the Trade Remedy Investigation Informationization Platform (https://etrb.mofcom.gov.cn), and submit the written version at the same time in accordance with the requirements of the Ministry of Commerce. The content of the electronic version and the written version shall be the same and the format shall be consistent. If the information submitted by the interested party to the MOFCOM needs to be kept confidential, the interested party may make a request to the MOFCOM for confidential treatment of the relevant information and state the reasons. If MOFCOM grants the request, the interested party applying for confidentiality shall at the same time provide a non-confidential summary of the confidential information. The non-confidential summary shall contain sufficient meaningful information to enable other stakeholders to have a reasonable understanding of the confidential information. If a non-confidential summary cannot be provided, a reason should be given. If a stakeholder submits information that does not state that it needs to be kept confidential, MOFCOM will treat the information as public. X. Consequences of Non-cooperation According to Article 21 of the Regulations of the People's Republic of China on Anti-Dumping, when MOFCOM conducts an investigation, the interested party shall truthfully reflect the situation and provide relevant information. If the interested party fails to reflect the situation truthfully and provide relevant information, or fails to provide the necessary information within a reasonable period of time, or seriously obstructs the investigation in other ways, MOFCOM may make a ruling based on the facts already obtained and the best information available. XI. Duration of the Investigation The investigation started on December 29, 2023, and shall be concluded by December 29, 2024 (excluding this date). XII. Contact Information of the Ministry of Commerce Address: No. 2, East Chang'an Street, Beijing, China Zip Code: 100731 Trade Remedy Investigation Bureau, Ministry of Commerce Import Investigations 4 Tel: 0086-10-65198194, 65198474 Fax: 0086-10-65198172 Website: Sub-website of the Trade Remedy Investigation Bureau on the website of the Ministry of Commerce (Website: trb.mofcom.gov.cn) .cn) Ministry of Commerce of the People's Republic of China December 22, 2023 Annexes: Application for Final Review Investigation of Anti-Dumping Measures on Butanol (Open Text) - Full Text.pdf Application for Final Review Investigation of Anti-Dumping Measures on Butanol (Open Text) - Annexes.pdf Reference Format for Registration for Participation in the Investigation of the Final Review of Anti-Dumping Measures on Butanol.wps
english_summary: The MOFCOM of China announced its decision to continue anti-dumping duties on imports of n-butanol originating from Taiwan, Malaysia, and the United States due to the liquidation of anti-dumping duties on these products. This decision was made following an end-of-term review investigation on the anti-dumping measures applied to imports of n-butanol originating from these countries.
