html: nan
title: 杭州特办召开服务地方商务工作座谈会
resulting_text: 为拉紧特办与地方纽带，扎实推进赋能等相关工作，强化特办服务地方商务工作能力，1月16日，杭州特办在浙江省商务工作会议期间召开“服务地方商务工作座谈会”。部办公厅樊家文处长到会指导，杭州特办刘福学特派员、宋惠勤副特派员、浙江省商务厅陈志成副厅长出席并讲话。省厅相关处室、全省11个地市商务投促部门主要负责同志参会。 会上，宋惠勤副特派员介绍了特办职能及重点工作情况。杭州、宁波、温州、金华、舟山市商务局，杭州市投资促进局、宁波市投资促进署围绕落实商务部试点示范、平台基地创建，配合督促检查商务重点工作落实情况，强化特办与地方互动等，汇报工作情况并提出问题及建议。樊家文处长介绍了特办赋能工作开展情况和下一步工作安排。陈志成副厅长对省厅各处室、各地市商务投促部门继续大力支持特办工作提出明确要求。会议还发起建立了杭州特办服务地方商务沟通联系机制，为特办和地方加强信息共享、开展联合调研搭建了常态化工作平台。 刘福学特派员感谢浙江长期以来对特办工作的大力支持，充分肯定特办与地方密切合作取得的务实成效，并就特办更好发挥联结上下、沟通内外的桥梁作用，更好服务地方发展提出四点意见： 一是把握形势， 面对复杂严峻的国内外形势，特办和省市商务投资部门需要进一步拉紧纽带，凝聚攻坚克难的合力。 二是推动工作， 特办要加强与地方商务部门协同联系，持续推动赋能任务以及部党组重大决策、重大项目在浙江落细落实。 三是贡献智慧， 特办要及时梳理报送浙江好经验好做法，为全国商务高质量发展贡献浙江智慧，全面展现“经济大省挑大梁”。 四是把准定位， 特办要做到到位不越位，补位不缺位，协助配合各级商务部门开展工作，助力地方商务实现高质量发展。
input_url: 20240126011922/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202401/20240103467971.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20240127190002/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202401/20240103467971.shtml
date: 2024-01-26 00:00:00
translated_title: Hangzhou Special Office held a symposium on serving local business work
translated_content: In order to tighten the bond between the Special Office and the local community, solidly promote the empowerment and other related work, and strengthen the Special Office's ability to serve the local business work, on January 16, Hangzhou Special Office held a "Symposium on Serving the Local Business Work" during the Zhejiang Provincial Business Work Conference. Mr. Fan Jiawen, Director of the General Office of the Ministry of Commerce of the People's Republic of China, came to the meeting to give guidance, and Mr. Liu Fuxue, Commissioner of Hangzhou Special Office, Mr. Song Huiqin, Deputy Commissioner of Hangzhou Special Office, and Mr. Chen Zhicheng, Deputy Director of the Department of Commerce of Zhejiang Province, attended the meeting and made a speech. Relevant offices of the provincial department, the province's 11 municipal business investment promotion department of the main responsible comrades to participate in the meeting. At the meeting, Song Huiqin, deputy commissioner introduced the functions and key work of the Office. Hangzhou, Ningbo, Wenzhou, Jinhua, Zhoushan City Bureau of Commerce, Hangzhou Investment Promotion Bureau, Ningbo Investment Promotion Agency around the implementation of the Ministry of Commerce pilot demonstration, platform base creation, with the supervision and inspection of the implementation of key business work to strengthen the Special Office of the interaction between the local, etc., to report on their work and put forward questions and suggestions. Mr. Fan Jiawen, Director of the Special Office, introduced the work of the Special Office and the next step of work arrangements. Chen Zhicheng, deputy director of the provincial office of the various departments, municipalities and business investment promotion departments to continue to support the work of the Special Office put forward clear requirements. The meeting also initiated the establishment of the Hangzhou Special Office to serve the local business communication and liaison mechanism, for the Special Office and the local to strengthen information sharing, to carry out joint research to build a regular working platform. Commissioner Liu Fuxue thanked Zhejiang for its long-term strong support for the work of the Office, fully affirmed the pragmatic results achieved by the close cooperation between the Office and the local community, and put forward four points of view on the Office to better play the role of a bridge linking up and down, inside and outside, and to better serve the development of the local community. First, grasp the situation. Secondly, to promote the work, the Special Office should strengthen the synergy with the local business sector, and continue to promote the empowerment of the task, as well as the Party Group of the Ministry of major decisions, major projects in Zhejiang, the implementation of the details. Three is to contribute wisdom, special office to timely sorting and reporting of good experience and good practices in Zhejiang, Zhejiang wisdom for the national high-quality development of business contribution, a comprehensive display of the "economic province to pick a big beam". Fourth, the positioning, the Office should be in place not to overstep the position, complementary position not lack of position, to assist and cooperate with the business sector at all levels to carry out their work, to help local business to achieve high-quality development.
english_summary: On January 16, the Hangzhou Special Office held a "Symposium on Serving the Local Business Work" during the Zhejiang Provincial Business Work Conference. Director Fan Jiawen of the General Office of the Ministry of Commerce of the People's Republic of China gave guidance, and Mr. Liu Fuxue, Commissioner of Hangzhou Special Office, Mr. Song Huiqin, Deputy Commissioner of Hangzhou Special Office, and Mr. Chen Zhicheng, Deputy Director of the Department of Commerce of Zhejiang Province, attended the meeting and made a speech. The meeting discussed the functions and key work of the Office, as well as the implementation of the Ministry of Commerce pilot demonstration, platform base creation, supervision and inspection of the implementation of key business work, and strengthening the interaction between the local. The meeting also initiated the establishment of a communication and liaison mechanism for the Special Office and the local community to strengthen information sharing and carry out joint research to build a regular working platform. Commissioner Liu Fuxue thanked Zhejiang for its long-term support for the work of the Office and put forward four points of view on the Office better serving the local community.
