html: nan
title: 商务部 文化和旅游部 文物局关于加强老字号与历史文化资源联动促进品牌消费的通知
resulting_text: 各省、自治区、直辖市及计划单列市、新疆生产建设兵团商务、文化和旅游、文物主管部门： 为贯彻党中央、国务院关于传承发展中华优秀传统文化的决策部署，落实《商务部等8部门关于促进老字号创新发展的意见》，加强老字号与历史文化资源联动，促进品牌消费，充分发挥老字号在促进消费持续恢复、弘扬中华优秀传统文化等方面的积极作用，现将有关事项通知如下： 一、加强老字号历史文化资源挖掘 （一） 加强老字号文物保护 利用 。 深化老字号文物历史研究，深入挖掘其历史文化价值，充分发挥老字号文物对弘扬中华优秀传统文化的积极作用，讲好中国故事。对符合条件的老字号遗存及时进行文物认定和定级，提升老字号文物保护级别。将拥有重要价值文物的老字号企业和符合条件的老字号经营场所原址依法核定为文物保护单位。支持对老字号文物保护单位进行保护修缮和活化利用，开设陈列馆、体验馆等，保持和提升老字号品牌形象。涉及不可移动文物的修缮、转让、抵押、改变用途等行为，应符合《文物保护法》相关规定。 （二）传承老字号传统工艺。 加强老字号和非物质文化遗产保护工作联动，支持将符合条件的老字号传统工艺纳入各级非物质文化遗产代表性项目名录，鼓励符合条件的老字号传承人申报各级非物质文化遗产代表性传承人。支持老字号传承人参加中国非物质文化遗产传承人研修培训计划等培训项目，提升技艺技能。将符合条件的非物质文化遗产相关企业列入中华老字号名录，培育具有核心竞争力的老字号传统工艺企业，提升品牌知名度和影响力。引导老字号传统工艺企业区分手工制作和机械生产，提高手工价值，培育大国工匠。鼓励保护成效明显、研发设计能力出众、人才优势突出、带动能力显著的老字号企业申报非物质文化遗产生产性保护示范基地。 （三）支持建设老字号题材博物馆。 推动老字号题材博物馆建设，支持拥有丰富品牌历史和文物遗存的老字号企业兴办博物馆，依法落实土地、税收等优惠政策。对符合条件的老字号博物馆依法依规开展定级，鼓励老字号博物馆开展经济社会发展变迁物证征藏。推进“老字号数字博物馆”建设，运用数字化技术保存展示老字号发展史料，以电子化方式集中展示相关丛书、画册、视频，展示老字号形象，讲好老字号故事。鼓励依托传统街区、古建筑群探索建设老字号博物馆集群，反映中华商业文明，呈现地域民俗风情。 二、促进老字号历史文化资源利用 （一）开发文化创意产品。 支持相关机构举办老字号文化创意比赛等活动，推动老字号企业利用当地文化馆、博物馆资源，加强对品牌文化、地域民俗、城市记忆的挖掘转化，开发更多蕴含传统文化、富含时尚元素、符合当代需求的产品和服务。支持老字号企业在尊重消费者使用习惯、保证产品服务质量水平的基础上，采取合作、授权等方式，吸引社会力量参与老字号文化创意产品研发、生产和经营。 （二）联动文化旅游资源。 支持有条件的城市商业街、步行街吸引老字号、非物质文化遗产项目入驻，促进抱团发展。引导老字号在旅游景区开设旗舰店、专卖店，结合景区特点开发富含文化特色、匠心技艺的旅游产品。鼓励老字号企业建设文化教育基地、特色旅游基地，依托发展历史拓展人文旅游、研学体验等项目。将符合条件的老字号企业、集聚区、博物馆纳入城乡旅游规划和旅游线路开展统筹规划，深度开发、重点推介。结合地域民俗和地方特色，加强老字号与非物质文化遗产、地理标志等工作衔接，更好发挥中华老字号示范带动作用，打造更多区域品牌。 （三）营造体验消费场景。 推动有条件的老字号企业以现有门店为基础，通过产品引导、艺术介入、空间改造等手段，打造还原历史场景、反映传承故事的历史文化体验场景。支持具备条件的文化馆、博物馆打造老字号、非物质文化遗产展示体验专区，面向参观者开展文化展示、技艺传习、手工体验等文化传播和体验活动。鼓励老字号企业与文化馆、博物馆加强联动，共同举办消费促进和文化传播活动，打造特色新业态和消费新场景。 三、不断激发品牌消费潜力 （一）发挥重要平台作用。 将促进老字号创新发展纳入国际消费中心城市培育、步行街改造提升等重点工作部署，丰富集商业、文化、旅游于一体的新型消费供给。发挥中国国际进口博览会、中国国际消费品博览会、中国国际服务贸易交易会等大型展会平台作用，加强老字号展览展销，促进国际交流合作。支持符合条件的老字号企业参加境外专业展会，推动老字号等国潮品牌走出国门、走向国际。 （二）举办消费促进活动。 办好“老字号嘉年华”“非遗购物节”等形式多样的消费促进活动，以老字号为重点，兼顾各地特色品牌，多方协同联动、线上线下同步，推动国潮品牌进商场、进街区、进景区、进社区、进平台。鼓励电商平台设立老字号等国潮品牌专区，充分利用“全国网上年货节”“双品网购节”等网络促销活动，带动品牌消费。聚焦中华民族传统节日，积极开展常态化消费促进工作，形成促进品牌消费、弘扬中华优秀传统文化的长效机制。 （三）创新营销推广手段。 支持新媒体平台举办“直播探店”等专题活动，运用短视频推介、视频直播等创新手段，发挥引流作用，扩大宣传范围。支持老字号传承人、相关企业负责人参与电商直播，讲述历史文化，展示传统工艺，推广创新产品。推动老字号企业数字化转型，运用大数据、云计算等现代信息技术升级营销模式，营造消费新场景。支持各类媒体开设老字号专题专栏，充分运用人民群众喜闻乐见的方式扩大宣传，持续营造良好的舆论环境。 四、工作要求 （一）精心做好策划。 各地商务、文化和旅游、文物主管部门要加强统筹协调，结合当地实际，确定工作重点，明确政策保障，统筹安排实施。鼓励有条件的地方统筹利用现有资金渠道加大对相关工作支持力度。 （二）加强组织管理。 各地商务、文化和旅游、文物主管部门要坚持企业自愿原则，统筹做好相关活动组织工作。要认真落实疫情防控和安全生产要求，保障各项工作稳妥有序开展。 （三）及时总结成效。 各地商务、文化和旅游、文物主管部门要认真梳理、及时报送工作中发现的优秀做法和典型案例，商务部、文化和旅游部、文物局将通过适当方式进行宣传推广。 商务部 文化和旅游部 文物局 2022年12月6日
input_url: 20230104054000/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202301/20230103377063.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230104054122/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202301/20230103377063.shtml
date: 2023-01-04 00:00:00
translated_title: Ministry of Commerce, Ministry of Culture and Tourism, Bureau of Cultural Relics on Strengthening the Linkage between Old Firms and Historical and Cultural Resources to Promote Brand Consumption
translated_content: Provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the Central Government and municipalities with separate plans, Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps in charge of commerce, culture and tourism, cultural relics: In order to implement the CPC Central Committee and the State Council on the inheritance and development of the Chinese outstanding traditional culture of the decision-making and deployment, the implementation of the "Ministry of Commerce and other eight departments on the promotion of innovative development of the old," to strengthen the old and the historical and cultural resources linked to the promotion of brand consumption, give full play to the old in the promotion of sustainable recovery of consumption, carry forward the positive role of Chinese excellent traditional culture and so on. Consumption continues to recover, carry forward the excellent traditional Chinese culture and other aspects of the positive role of the old, is hereby notified as follows: First, to strengthen the old historical and cultural resources excavation (a) Strengthen the old cultural relics protection and utilization. Deepen the historical research on the heritage of old firms, dig deeper into their historical and cultural value, give full play to the positive role of the heritage of old firms in carrying forward the excellent traditional Chinese culture, and tell a good Chinese story. Timely identification and grading of eligible relics of old firms, and upgrading the level of protection of old firms' cultural relics. The original sites of old-fashioned enterprises with important value cultural relics and eligible old-fashioned business premises are approved as cultural relics protection units in accordance with the law. It supports the protection, repair and adaptive use of old-fashioned cultural relics protection units, and the opening of exhibition halls and experience halls, etc., so as to maintain and enhance the brand image of old-fashioned enterprises. Actions involving the repair, transfer, mortgage and change of use of immovable cultural relics should be in line with the relevant provisions of the Cultural Relics Protection Law. (ii) Inherit the traditional craftsmanship of old firms. Strengthen the linkage between the protection of old and intangible cultural heritage, support the inclusion of qualified traditional crafts of old firms into the list of representative projects of intangible cultural heritage at all levels, and encourage qualified inheritors of old firms to declare themselves as representative inheritors of intangible cultural heritage at all levels. It supports the participation of the inheritors of old firms in training programs such as the China Intangible Cultural Heritage Inheritors Training Program, so as to improve their technical skills. Include qualified intangible cultural heritage-related enterprises in the list of Chinese old brands, cultivate old traditional craft enterprises with core competitiveness, and enhance brand awareness and influence. Guiding old traditional craft enterprises to differentiate between handmade and mechanical production, increasing the value of handmade crafts, and fostering great master craftsmen. Encourage old enterprises with obvious protection effect, outstanding R&D and design capability, outstanding talent advantage and remarkable driving ability to declare demonstration bases for productive protection of intangible cultural heritage. (iii) Supporting the construction of museums for old brands. Promote the construction of museums for old brands, support the establishment of museums by old enterprises with rich brand history and cultural relics, and implement preferential policies on land and taxation in accordance with the law. To carry out grading of eligible old-fashioned museums in accordance with the law, and to encourage old-fashioned museums to carry out collection of physical evidence of economic and social development and change. Promote the construction of "old digital museum", using digital technology to preserve and display the historical materials of the development of the old firms, and electronically display the relevant series of books, albums and videos to show the image of the old firms and tell the story of the old firms. Encourage the exploration and construction of museum clusters of old firms relying on traditional neighborhoods and ancient architectural complexes, reflecting Chinese commercial civilization and presenting regional folk customs and styles. Promote the use of historical and cultural resources of the old firms (a) the development of cultural and creative products. Support relevant organizations to hold cultural and creative competitions for old brands, and promote the use of local cultural centers and museums to strengthen the excavation and transformation of brand culture, regional folklore and urban memory, and to develop more products and services that contain traditional culture, are rich in fashionable elements, and meet the needs of the times. Support the old enterprises in respecting the habits of consumers, to ensure the quality of products and services on the basis of the level of cooperation, authorization and other ways to attract social forces to participate in the old cultural and creative products research and development, production and operation. (ii) Linking cultural and tourism resources. Support conditional urban commercial streets and pedestrian streets to attract old brands and intangible cultural heritage projects, and promote group development. Guiding the old firms to open flagship stores and boutiques in tourist attractions, and developing tourism products rich in cultural characteristics and artisanal skills in combination with the characteristics of scenic spots. Encourage the old enterprises to build cultural education bases, special tourism bases, relying on the development of history to expand humanities tourism, study and experience programs. Qualified old enterprises, clusters, museums into urban and rural tourism planning and tourism routes to carry out integrated planning, in-depth development, focus on promotion. Combined with regional folklore and local characteristics, to strengthen the old and intangible cultural heritage, geographical indications and other work to better play the role of China's old demonstration, to create more regional brands. (iii) Create experiential consumption scenarios. Promote conditional old enterprises to take existing stores as the basis, through product guidance, art intervention, space transformation and other means, to create historical and cultural experience scenes that restore historical scenes and reflect the inheritance story. Support qualified cultural centers and museums to create special zones for displaying and experiencing old brands and intangible cultural heritage, and carry out cultural dissemination and experiential activities such as cultural demonstration, skill transfer and handcraft experience for visitors. Encourage the old enterprises and cultural centers, museums to strengthen the linkage, co-organize consumption promotion and cultural dissemination activities, to create new features and consumption of new scenes. (III) Continuously stimulate the consumption potential of brands (I) Play the role of an important platform. Promote the innovative development of old brands into the cultivation of international consumption center cities, pedestrian street renovation and upgrading and other key work deployment, and enrich the new consumption supply integrating commerce, culture and tourism. Playing the role of large-scale exhibitions such as China International Import Expo, China International Consumer Goods Expo and China International Fair for Trade in Services, it will strengthen the exhibitions and sales of old brands and promote international exchanges and cooperation. Support qualified old enterprises to participate in overseas professional exhibitions, and promote the old and other national tide brands out of the country and to the international arena. (ii) Organize consumption promotion activities. Run the "Carnival of Old Firms", "Non-heritage Shopping Festival" and other forms of consumption promotion activities, focusing on old firms, taking into account the characteristics of local brands, multi-party coordination, online and offline synchronization, to promote the national tide of brands into the shopping malls, neighborhoods, scenic spots, communities, platforms. The company will also promote the entry of national tide brands into shopping malls, neighborhoods, scenic spots and communities. Encourage e-commerce platforms to set up special zones for old brands and other national tide brands, and make full use of the "National Online New Year's Eve Festival", "Double Products Online Shopping Festival" and other online promotional activities to drive brand consumption. Focusing on the traditional festivals of the Chinese nation, and actively carry out regular consumption promotion work, the formation of long-term mechanism to promote brand consumption and carry forward the excellent traditional Chinese culture. (C) innovative marketing and promotion means. Support new media platforms to organize "live store" and other thematic activities, the use of short video promotion, live video and other innovative means to play the role of attracting traffic and expand the scope of publicity. Support the old inheritors, the relevant business leaders to participate in e-commerce live, tell the history and culture, show traditional crafts, promote innovative products. Promote the digital transformation of old enterprises, use big data, cloud computing and other modern information technology to upgrade the marketing model and create new consumption scenes. Support various types of media to open old special columns, fully utilizing the people's popular way to expand publicity, and continue to create a favorable public opinion environment. Fourth, the work requirements (a) careful planning. Local business, culture and tourism, cultural relics authorities to strengthen coordination, combined with local practice, to determine the focus of the work, clear policy protection, integrated arrangements for implementation. Encourage the conditions of the local co-ordination of the use of existing funding channels to increase support for related work. (B) strengthen the organization and management. Local departments in charge of business, culture and tourism, cultural relics should adhere to the principle of voluntary enterprises, and coordinate the organization of related activities. To conscientiously implement the epidemic prevention and control and production safety requirements to ensure that the work is carried out in a stable and orderly manner. (C) summarize the effectiveness in a timely manner. Local departments in charge of commerce, culture and tourism, cultural relics should carefully sort out and timely report the excellent practices and typical cases found in the work, the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the Cultural Relics Bureau will be publicized and promoted through appropriate means. Ministry of Commerce Ministry of Culture and Tourism Cultural Relics Bureau December 6, 2022
english_summary: The Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, and the Cultural Relics Bureau issued a notice on December 6, 2022, to strengthen the linkage between old firms and historical and cultural resources in order to promote brand consumption in provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities under the Central Government, and municipalities with separate plans. The document outlines several ways to achieve this objective, including the strengthening of old historical and cultural resources, the inheritance of traditional craftsmanship of old firms, supporting the construction of museums for old brands, and stimulating the consumption potential of brands. The measures aim to recover consumption and carry forward the positive role of Chinese excellent traditional culture.
