html: nan
title: 商务部公告2023年第8号 商务部关于对原产于印度的进口酞菁类颜料反倾销调查最终裁定的公告
resulting_text: 根据《中华人民共和国反倾销条例》（以下称《反倾销条例》）的规定，2022年3月1日，商务部（以下称调查机关）发布公告，决定对原产于印度的进口酞菁类颜料（以下称被调查产品）进行反倾销立案调查。 调查机关对被调查产品是否存在倾销和倾销幅度、被调查产品是否对国内酞菁类颜料产业造成损害及损害程度以及倾销与损害之间的因果关系进行了调查。根据调查结果和《反倾销条例》第二十四条的规定，2022年10月31日，调查机关发布初裁公告，初步认定原产于印度的进口酞菁类颜料存在倾销，国内酞菁类颜料产业受到实质损害，而且倾销与实质损害之间存在因果关系。 初步裁定后，调查机关对倾销和倾销幅度、损害和损害程度以及倾销与损害之间的因果关系进行了继续调查。现本案调查结束，根据《反倾销条例》第二十五条规定，调查机关作出最终裁定（见附件1）。现将有关事项公告如下： 一、最终裁定 调查机关最终认定，原产于印度的进口酞菁类颜料存在倾销，国内酞菁类颜料产业受到实质损害，而且倾销与实质损害之间存在因果关系。 二、征收反倾销税 根据《反倾销条例》第三十八条规定，商务部向国务院关税税则委员会提出征收反倾销税的建议，国务院关税税则委员会根据商务部的建议作出决定，自2023年2月27日起，对原产于印度的进口酞菁类颜料征收反倾销税。 被调查产品的具体描述如下： 调查范围：原产于印度的进口酞菁类颜料。 被调查产品名称：酞菁类颜料。 英文名称：Phthalocyanine，或称Phthalocyanine Pigment、Pathalocyanine Pigment。 产品描述：酞菁类颜料是具有四个异吲哚啉构造平面大环分子的一种有机化合物，无论是否经过精制及或颜料化。经过精制及或颜料化的酞菁类颜料色泽鲜艳，着色力强，具有优良的耐候性、耐热性、耐溶剂性、耐酸性和耐碱性，不溶于常规的有机溶剂。 主要用途：酞菁类颜料可用于涂料、油漆、油墨、塑料、橡胶、合成纤维原浆等产品的着色，及作为部分染料（如直接耐晒翠兰GL、活性翠兰K-GL等）的原料，在光记录介质、滤光片等领域也有特定生产用途，产品广泛应用在建筑、装饰、汽车、电子电器、包装印刷、化纤纺织、光电等领域。 该产品归在《中华人民共和国进出口税则》：32041700和32129000。上述税则号项下酞菁类颜料以外的其他产品不在本次调查范围之内。 对各公司征收的反倾销税税率在本公告附件2中列明。 三、征收反倾销税的方法 自2023年2月27日起，进口经营者在进口原产于印度的酞菁类颜料时，应向中华人民共和国海关缴纳相应的反倾销税。反倾销税以海关审定的完税价格从价计征，计算公式为：反倾销税税额=海关审定的完税价格×反倾销税税率。进口环节增值税以海关审定的完税价格加上关税和反倾销税作为计税价格从价计征。 四、反倾销税的追溯征收 对自2022年11月1日起至2023年2月26日有关进口经营者依初裁公告向中华人民共和国海关所提供的保证金，按终裁所确定的征收反倾销税的产品范围和反倾销税税率计征并转为反倾销税，并按相应的增值税税率计征进口环节增值税。在此期间有关进口经营者所提供的保证金超出反倾销税的部分，以及由此多征的进口环节增值税部分，海关予以退还，少征部分则不再征收。 对临时反倾销措施实施之日前进口的原产于印度的酞菁类颜料不追溯征收反倾销税。 五、征收反倾销税的期限 对原产于印度的进口酞菁类颜料征收反倾销税的实施期限自2023年2月27日起5年。 六、新出口商复审 对于印度未在调查期内向中华人民共和国出口被调查产品的新出口经营者，符合条件的，可依据《反倾销条例》第四十七条的规定，向调查机关书面申请新出口商复审。 七、期间复审 在征收反倾销税期间，有关利害关系方可以根据《反倾销条例》第四十九条的规定，向调查机关书面申请期间复审。 八、行政复议和行政诉讼 对本案终裁决定及征收反倾销税的决定不服的，根据《反倾销条例》第五十三条的规定，可以依法申请行政复议，也可以依法向人民法院提起诉讼。 本公告自2023年2月27日起执行。 附件1：中华人民共和国商务部关于对原产于印度的进口酞菁类颜料反倾销调查的最终裁定.pdf 附件2：各公司反倾销税税率列表.pdf 商务部 2023年2月24日
input_url: 20230227033932/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202302/20230203393455.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230225143947/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202302/20230203393455.shtml
date: 2023-02-27 00:00:00
translated_title: MOFCOM Announcement No. 8 of 2023 Announcement of the Ministry of Commerce on the Final Determination of the Anti-Dumping Investigation on Imports of Phthalocyanine Pigments Originating in India
translated_content: According to the provisions of the Regulations of the People's Republic of China on Anti-Dumping (hereinafter referred to as the Anti-Dumping Regulations), on March 1, 2022, the Ministry of Commerce (hereinafter referred to as the Investigating Authority) issued a public notice, deciding to file an anti-dumping investigation into the imports of phthalocyanine pigments (hereinafter referred to as the investigated products) originating in India. The investigating authority investigated whether there was dumping and dumping margin of the investigated products, whether the investigated products caused damages to the domestic phthalocyanine pigment industry and the extent of damages, as well as the causal relationship between dumping and damages. Based on the results of the investigation and the provisions of Article 24 of the Anti-dumping Regulations, on October 31, 2022, the investigating authority issued the preliminary ruling announcement, and preliminarily found that there was dumping of imported phthalocyanine pigments originating from India, and that the domestic industry of phthalocyanine pigments had suffered substantial injury, and that there was a causal relationship between the dumping and the substantial injury. After the preliminary determination, the investigating authority continued to investigate the dumping and dumping margin, the damage and the degree of damage, as well as the causal relationship between dumping and damage. Now the investigation of this case is completed, and according to the provisions of Article 25 of the Anti-Dumping Regulations, the investigating authority has made a final determination (see Annex 1). The relevant matters are announced as follows: I. Final Determination The investigating authority finally determined that the imported phthalocyanine pigments originated from India were dumped, and the domestic phthalocyanine pigment industry was materially injured, and there was a causal relationship between the dumping and the material injury. II. Imposition of anti-dumping duty According to Article 38 of the Anti-dumping Regulations, the Ministry of Commerce proposed to the Customs Tariff Commission of the State Council to impose anti-dumping duty, and the Customs Tariff Commission of the State Council made a decision based on the proposal of the Ministry of Commerce to impose anti-dumping duty on the imports of phthalocyanine pigments originated from India from February 27, 2023 onwards. The specific description of the investigated products is as follows: Scope of investigation: imported phthalocyanine pigments originating in India. Name of the investigated products: Phthalocyanine pigments. English name: Phthalocyanine, or Phthalocyanine Pigment, Pathalocyanine Pigment. Product description: Phthalocyanine pigment is an organic compound with four isoindoline structural planar macrocyclic molecules, no matter whether it is refined or pigmented. Phthalocyanine pigments after refining and pigmentation have bright color, strong coloring power, excellent weather resistance, heat resistance, solvent resistance, acid resistance and alkali resistance, insoluble in conventional organic solvents. Main applications: phthalocyanine pigments can be used for coloring of coatings, paints, inks, plastics, rubber, synthetic fibers and other products, and as raw materials for some dyes (such as direct sunlight-resistant Curamin GL, active Curamin K-GL, etc.), and also have specific production uses in the fields of optical recording media, filters, etc. The products are widely used in the fields of construction, decoration, automobile, electronic and electrical appliances, packaging and printing, chemical fiber and textile, photoelectricity, and so on. The products are widely used in construction, decoration, automobile, electronic and electrical appliances, packaging and printing, chemical fiber and textile, photoelectricity and other fields. The products are categorized in the Import and Export Tariff Code of the People's Republic of China: 32041700 and 32129000, and the products other than phthalocyanine pigments under the above tariff codes are not included in the scope of this investigation. The anti-dumping duty rates imposed on the companies are listed in Annex 2 of this announcement. III. Method of levying anti-dumping duty From February 27, 2023, import operators shall pay the corresponding anti-dumping duty to the Customs of the People's Republic of China when importing phthalocyanine pigments originated from India. The anti-dumping duty shall be levied ad valorem on the duty-paid price audited by the Customs, and the formula is: anti-dumping duty amount = duty-paid price audited by the Customs × anti-dumping duty rate. Import VAT is levied ad valorem on the customs-validated duty-paid price plus customs duty and anti-dumping duty as the taxable price. Retrospective Collection of Anti-Dumping Duty The deposits provided by the relevant importing operators to the Customs of the People's Republic of China in accordance with the announcement of the Preliminary Determination from November 1, 2022 to February 26, 2023 shall be calculated and converted into anti-dumping duty according to the scope of the products for which anti-dumping duty is levied and the rate of anti-dumping duty as determined by the Final Determination, and the import-related VAT shall be calculated and levied in accordance with the corresponding VAT rate. During this period, the part of the deposit provided by the importing operator in excess of the anti-dumping duty, as well as the part of the import VAT overcharged, shall be refunded by the Customs, and the part of the undercharged amount shall no longer be levied. The anti-dumping duty will not be retroactively levied on the phthalocyanine pigments imported from India before the date of implementation of the provisional anti-dumping measures. The period of anti-dumping duty on phthalocyanine pigments imported from India shall be five years from February 27, 2023 onwards. New Exporter Review For the new export operators that India has not exported the investigated products to the People's Republic of China during the investigation period, if they meet the conditions, they can apply in writing to the investigating authority for new exporter review in accordance with the provisions of Article 47 of the Anti-dumping Regulations. VII. Periodical Review During the period of levying anti-dumping duties, relevant stakeholders may apply in writing to the investigating authority for a periodical review in accordance with the provisions of Article 49 of the Anti-Dumping Regulations. VIII. Administrative Reconsideration and Administrative Litigation Any person who is not satisfied with the final decision on this case and the decision on the imposition of anti-dumping duty may apply for administrative reconsideration or file a lawsuit with the People's Court in accordance with law in accordance with the provisions of Article 53 of the Anti-Dumping Regulations. This announcement shall be implemented from February 27, 2023 onwards. Annex 1: Final Determination of the Ministry of Commerce of the People's Republic of China on the Anti-Dumping Investigation on Imports of Phthalocyanine Pigments Originating in India.pdf Annex 2: List of Anti-Dumping Duty Rates by Company.pdf Ministry of Commerce February 24, 2023
english_summary: The Ministry of Commerce of the People's Republic of China has announced the final determination of its anti-dumping investigation on imports of phthalocyanine pigments originating in India. The investigation found that there was dumping of the imported phthalocyanine pigments, and the domestic industry of phthalocyanine pigments had suffered substantial injury, and there was a causal relationship between the dumping and the substantial injury. The Ministry of Commerce has proposed to the Customs Tariff Commission of the State Council to impose anti-dumping duty on the imports of phthalocyanine pigments from India, and the Customs Tariff Commission of the State Council made a decision to impose anti-dumping duty, effective from February 27, 2023. The specific details of the imported phthalocyanine pigments are described in the announcement. The duty rates imposed on the companies are listed in Annex 2 of this announcement.
