html: nan
title: 世贸司举办2023年第二期全国贸易政策合规工作培训班
resulting_text: 11月1日至3日，商务部世贸司在北京举办2023年第二期全国贸易政策合规工作培训班。来自全国各省、自治区、直辖市和计划单列市商务主管部门，中央国家机关相关部门，有关研究机构和商协会共64名同志参加培训。 商务部世贸司负责同志围绕学习贯彻习近平总书记在中共中央政治局第八次集体学习上的重要讲话精神，深刻阐述做好包括合规在内的世贸组织工作、以高水平对外开放促进深层次改革、高质量发展的重要意义。世贸司、条法司的业务主管同志围绕当前贸易政策合规工作的需要，分别就多边贸易体制基本原则、补贴规则及绿色贸易壁垒、投资便利化、技术性贸易措施、通报审议及争端解决案例等专题进行授课，介绍世贸组织改革及最新谈判进展，并就合规工作实务开展经验分享。 自2015年以来，商务部世贸司已经连续举办19期全国贸易政策合规工作培训班，有效提高了参训人员对世贸规则的运用能力及合规工作水平。
input_url: 20231109005802/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202311/20231103451495.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20231107092022/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202311/20231103451495.shtml
date: 2023-11-09 00:00:00
translated_title: WTO organizes the second national training course on trade policy compliance for 2023
translated_content: From November 1 to 3, the Department of WTO of the Ministry of Commerce organized the second national training course on trade policy compliance in 2023 in Beijing. A total of 64 comrades from commerce departments of provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the central government and municipalities with separate plans, relevant departments of the central state organs, relevant research institutes and business associations participated in the training. The responsible comrades of the Department of World Trade of the Ministry of Commerce focused on the study and implementation of the important speech of General Secretary Xi Jinping at the Eighth Collective Study of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee, and profoundly elaborated on the importance of doing a good job in WTO work, including compliance, and opening up to the outside world to promote the deep-level reforms and high-quality development at a high level. Comrades in charge of the business of the Department of WTO and the Department of Treaty and Law focused on the needs of the current trade policy compliance work, respectively, on the basic principles of the multilateral trading system, subsidy rules and green trade barriers, investment facilitation, technical trade measures, notification of deliberation and dispute settlement cases, etc., and introduced the WTO reforms and the latest progress of the negotiations, and carried out experience-sharing on the practice of compliance work. Since 2015, the Department of WTO of the Ministry of Commerce has organized 19 consecutive national training courses on trade policy compliance, which have effectively improved the ability of participants to apply WTO rules and the level of compliance work.
english_summary: From November 1 to 3, the Department of WTO of the Ministry of Commerce organized the second national training course on trade policy compliance in 2023 in Beijing. It was attended by 64 participants from commerce departments of provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the central government, municipalities with separate plans, relevant departments of central state organs, relevant research institutes and business associations. The responsible comrades of the Department of World Trade of the Ministry of Commerce focused on the study and implementation of General Secretary Xi Jinping's important speech at the Eighth Collective Study of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee, and deeply elaborated on the importance of doing a good job in WTO work, including compliance and opening up to promote deep-level reforms and high-quality development. The training focused on the basic principles of the multilateral trading system, subsidy rules and green trade barriers, investment facilitation, technical trade measures, notification of deliberation and dispute settlement cases, among others. Since 2015, the Department of WTO of the Ministry of Commerce has organized 19 consecutive national training courses on trade policy compliance, which have effectively improved the ability of participants to apply WTO rules and the level of compliance work.
