html: nan
title: 商务部办公厅关于组织开展2023年 “老字号嘉年华”活动的通知
resulting_text: 各省、自治区、直辖市及计划单列市、新疆生产建设兵团商务主管部门，有关单位： 为贯彻落实商务部等8部门《关于促进老字号创新发展的意见》，充分发挥老字号在恢复和扩大消费、传承发展中华优秀传统文化等方面的积极作用，商务部决定组织开展2023年“老字号嘉年华”活动。现将有关事项通知如下： 一、总体安排 全面贯彻党的二十大精神，深入落实中央经济工作会议部署，以“ 品味老字号 乐享新生活 ”为主题，以中华老字号和地方老字号为重点、兼顾地方特色产品，组织开展贯穿全年的“1+3+N”系列活动，提升老字号文化内涵和供给品质，为人民群众打造更多消费场景，推动老字号加快守正创新发展，更好融入现代生产生活，持续恢复和扩大消费。 二、主要内容 （一） 1 场启动仪式。 商务部将联合山东省人民政府，在青岛台东路步行街举办全国“老字号嘉年华”启动仪式，发布全年活动安排，现场组织展示展销，全面启动“老字号嘉年华”系列活动。 （二） 3 大主题活动。 商务部将调动政府部门、行业协会、新闻媒体、电商平台、专业机构等各界力量，统筹线上线下，集合优质资源，聚焦“节日消费”“掌门人直播”“老字号探店”3大主题，组织举办形式多样、内容丰富的主题活动（附件1），各地要结合实际积极组织老字号企业参与。 1.“ 节日消费 ”主题活动 。 聚焦元宵节、端午节、中秋节、重阳节等传统节日，五一、暑期、十一等重要假期，以及进博会、消博会、服贸会等大型展会和“618”“双11”等消费节点，组织地方和阿里、美团、京东等电商平台举办老字号专题促销活动，推动老字号进商场、进街区、进社区、进平台，加大节令商品供应，活跃节日消费市场。 2.“ 掌门人直播 ”主题活动 。 发挥山东、浙江等老字号直播基地、集聚区优势，提升老字号企业电商运营能力和供应链管理水平，带动更多老字号企业发展“直播电商”。指导阿里、抖音等电商平台和新媒体平台举办专题活动，组织老字号掌门人、传承人走进直播间讲述发展故事，展示传统技艺，让消费者通过镜头了解老字号、体验老字号，感受中华优秀传统文化魅力。 3.“ 老字号探店 ”主题活动 。 推广上海、山东、江苏等地老字号品牌馆、博物馆建设经验，会同相关部门支持具备条件的文化馆、博物馆打造老字号体验专区，开展老字号集中展示展销，吸引参观者、消费者互动参与。指导抖音、快手等新媒体平台举办老字号探店活动，组织知名专家、网络主播、探店达人前往老字号门店“打卡”，推广优质产品和消费场景，创新消费体验。 （三） N 场特色活动。 各地按照当地消费促进活动统一安排，结合民俗文化和风土人情，分别采用“华夏迎春 名品焕新”“清凉一夏 好品送爽”“绚丽金秋 优品畅享”“暖心冬日 臻品传承”等主题，因地制宜举办商品展销、技艺展示、文化体验等专题活动，帮助老字号企业建立长期稳定的销售渠道，升级营销模式，扩大消费群体。 相关活动组织方和参与方可规范使用“老字号嘉年华”标识，统一活动形象，形成良好氛围，但不得滥用乱用（具体要求见附件2）。 三、工作要求 （一）加强组织领导。 各地要结合老字号全年工作安排和当地消费促进活动总体规划，提前谋划、有序布局一批特色活动，持续促进老字号消费。各地和相关活动组织方要坚持企业自愿原则，广泛动员老字号企业参与，同时认真落实各项防疫和安全生产措施，切实做好反食品浪费工作，保障各项活动稳妥有序开展。 （二） 强化政策支持 。 各地要结合当地实际，会同相关部门加强对有关活动、老字号企业的政策支持和服务保障，以老字号为抓手，持续活跃消费市场。商务部将联合相关金融机构加强对老字号集中营销活动的支持。 （三） 加强宣传推广。 各地要结合地域特色和活动特点，深入挖掘宣传素材，梳理提炼宣传亮点，充分调动和发挥各类媒体力量，加大宣传推广力度，持续营造良好氛围。 （四） 认真做好总结。 各地和相关活动组织方要认真做好总结，及时提炼好经验、好做法。全国性主题活动组织方要于活动结束后10个工作日内向商务部（流通发展司，下同）报送总结（附件3），各地要于每季度结束后10个工作日内向商务部报送工作情况（附件4）。 附件：    1. “老字号嘉年华”主题活动表 2. “老字号嘉年华”标识使用要求 3. “老字号嘉年华”活动总结表 4. “老字号嘉年华”工作情况表 商务部办公厅 2023年2月1日
input_url: 20230205195329/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkgztz/202302/20230203382073.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230207155631/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkgztz/202302/20230203382073.shtml
date: 2023-02-06 00:00:00
translated_title: General Office of the Ministry of Commerce on the organization of the "Carnival of Old Firms" 2023
translated_content: Provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the Central Government and municipalities with separate plans, Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps, the competent departments of commerce, the relevant units: In order to implement the "Opinions on Promoting the Innovative Development of Old Firms" of the Ministry of Commerce and other eight departments, and to give full play to the positive role of the old firms in the restoration and expansion of consumption and the inheritance and development of Chinese excellent traditional culture, the Ministry of Commerce decided to organize the "Old Firms Carnival" activity for the year of 2023. The Ministry of Commerce has decided to organize and carry out the "Carnival of Old Firms" in 2023. The Ministry of Commerce has decided to organize and carry out the "Carnival of Old Firms" in 2023. The relevant matters are notified as follows: I. Overall Arrangement To comprehensively implement the spirit of the 20th CPC National Congress, deeply implement the deployment of the Central Economic Work Conference, and with the theme of "Taste the Old Firms and Enjoy the New Life", and with the focus on the Chinese Old Firms and the local Old Firms and local characteristic products, the Ministry of Commerce will organize and carry out the activities throughout the year. "1+3+N" series of activities will be organized throughout the year to enhance the cultural connotation and supply quality of old brands, create more consumption scenarios for the people, and promote the acceleration of the development of old brands by keeping them in line with the right and innovative development, better integrating them into modern production and life, and sustained restoration and expansion of consumption. Second, the main content (a) a launching ceremony. The Ministry of Commerce will work with the Shandong Provincial People's Government to hold a national "Carnival of the old" kick-off ceremony on Taidong Road Pedestrian Street in Qingdao, releasing the year's activities, organizing on-site exhibitions and sales, and comprehensively launching the "Carnival of the old" series of activities. (ii) 3 major theme activities. The Ministry of Commerce will mobilize the power of government departments, industry associations, news media, e-commerce platforms, professional organizations and other sectors, coordinate online and offline, and gather high-quality resources to focus on three major themes, namely "festive consumption", "live broadcasting by masters" and "store visits by old brands". Visit store" 3 themes, organize a variety of forms, rich in content, thematic activities (Annex 1), localities should be combined with the actual and actively organize the participation of the old enterprises. 1. "Holiday Consumption" theme activities. Focus on the Lantern Festival, Dragon Boat Festival, Mid-Autumn Festival, Chung Yeung Festival and other traditional festivals, May Day, summer, November and other important holidays, as well as the Fair, Consumer Fair, Trade Fair and other large-scale exhibitions and consumer nodes such as "618", "Double 11" and so on, to organize local and Ali, Meituan, Jingdong and other e-commerce platforms to organize a variety of content-rich activities (Annex 1), localities should actively organize the participation of old enterprises in accordance with the actual situation. Jingdong and other e-commerce platforms to organize thematic promotional activities for the old, promote the old into shopping malls, neighborhoods, communities and platforms, increase the supply of seasonal commodities, and enliven the holiday consumption market. 2. " Master live " theme activities . Give full play to the advantages of Shandong, Zhejiang and other old live bases and clusters, improve the e-commerce operation ability and supply chain management level of old enterprises, and drive more old enterprises to develop "live e-commerce". Guide Ali, Jitterbug and other e-commerce platforms and new media platforms to hold special events, organizing the old masters, inheritors into the live broadcast to tell the story of the development of the show traditional skills, so that consumers through the lens to understand the old, experience the old, feel the charm of the excellent traditional Chinese culture. 3. " Theme activities of "visiting stores of old brands" . Promote Shanghai, Shandong, Jiangsu and other places of old brands brand museum, museum construction experience, in conjunction with the relevant departments to support the conditions of cultural centers, museums to create a special area of old experience, to carry out the old centralized display of exhibitions and sales, to attract visitors, consumers interactive participation. Guiding jittery voice, fast hand and other new media platforms to hold old store visits, organizing well-known experts, network anchors, store visits to the old store "card", to promote high-quality products and consumption scenarios, innovative consumer experience. (iii) N special activities. In accordance with the unified arrangement of local consumption promotion activities, localities combined with folk culture and local customs, and respectively adopted the "Spring in Huaxia Renewal of Famous Products", "Cool Summer Delivery of Good Products", "Splendid Autumn Enjoyment of Excellent Products", "Warm Heart", "Warm Heart" and "Warm Heart" campaigns. "The themes of "Winter Warmth, Precision Inheritance" are used to organize thematic activities such as exhibitions and sales of commodities, demonstration of skills and cultural experience, helping the old enterprises to establish long-term and stable sales channels, upgrade their marketing models and expand their consumer base. The organizers and participants of the relevant activities can standardize the use of the "Carnival of the old" logo, a unified image of the activities, to form a good atmosphere, but shall not be abused indiscriminately (see Annex 2 for specific requirements). Work requirements (a) strengthen organizational leadership. Localities should combine the old year-round work arrangements and local consumption promotion activities overall planning, advance planning, orderly layout of a number of special activities, and continue to promote the consumption of old. Local and relevant activities organizers should adhere to the principle of voluntary enterprises, widely mobilize the participation of old enterprises, while seriously implement the epidemic prevention and safety measures, and effectively do a good job in the fight against food waste, to ensure that the activities are carried out in a stable and orderly manner. (ii) Strengthening policy support. Localities should combine with local realities, strengthen policy support and service guarantee for relevant activities and old enterprises in cooperation with relevant departments, and continue to activate the consumer market with the old enterprises. The Ministry of Commerce will join hands with relevant financial institutions to strengthen the support for the centralized marketing activities of old brands. (iii) Strengthen publicity and promotion. Localities should combine the regional characteristics and the characteristics of the activities, in-depth excavation of publicity materials, combing and refining the publicity highlights, fully mobilize and play all kinds of media power, increase publicity and promotion efforts, and continue to create a good atmosphere. (D) seriously do a good job summarizing. Local and relevant activities should be carefully summarized by the organizers, and timely refinement of good experience and good practices. Organizers of national theme activities should submit a summary to the Ministry of Commerce (Circulation Development Department, the same below) within 10 working days after the end of the activities (Annex 3), and localities should report their work to the Ministry of Commerce within 10 working days after the end of each quarter (Annex 4). Attachments: 1. "Carnival of Old Brand" theme activity table 2. "Carnival of Old Brand" logo use requirements 3. "Carnival of Old Brand" activity summary table 4. Table on the Work of "Carnival of Old Firms" General Office of the Ministry of Commerce February 1, 2023
english_summary: The Ministry of Commerce of China has announced the organization of the "Carnival of Old Firms" for 2023. This event aims to promote the development of old firms, give full play to their positive role in restoring and expanding consumption, and promote the inheritance and development of Chinese excellent traditional culture. The overall arrangement of the event will focus on Chinese old firms and local old firms and local characteristic products. The year-long event will include a launching ceremony, three major theme activities, and various special activities. The Ministry of Commerce will work with relevant departments, industry associations, news media, e-commerce platforms, and professional organizations to organize the event and promote the development of old brands.
