html: nan
title: 老挝中资银企座谈会在万象举行
resulting_text: 12月21日下午，老挝中资银企座谈会在万象举行，中国驻老挝大使馆经商处参赞赵文宇、中国进出口银行首席风险官李忠元出席，工商银行、中国银行、中国电建、老中铁路、中国重机、北方国际、南方电网负责人参会。会议由中国进出口银行香港代表处首席代表曲涛主持。 此次座谈会以“统筹发展与安全，推动共建‘一带一路’高质量发展”为主题。会上，赵文宇参赞首先向中国进出口银行代表团一行表示欢迎，对各中资银行和企业为推动中老友好合作所做的努力表示感谢，并简要介绍了老挝经济社会发展情况。随后，与会单位简要介绍了在老业务开展及重点项目情况，中国进出口银行代表团与各参会单位围绕风险防控、合规经营等进行了深入的交流探讨，提出了银企携手推动实现海外业务高质量发展的意见建议。
input_url: 20231227001057/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202312/20231203462782.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20231225173316/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202312/20231203462782.shtml
date: 2023-12-27 00:00:00
translated_title: Symposium on Chinese Banks and Enterprises in Laos Held in Vientiane
translated_content: On the afternoon of December 21st, a seminar for Chinese banks and enterprises in Laos was held in Vientiane, attended by Zhao Wenyu, Counselor of the Economic and Commercial Office of the Chinese Embassy in Laos, and Li Zhongyuan, Chief Risk Officer of the Export-Import Bank of China; and the persons in charge of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, Bank of China, China Electricity Construction Corporation (CECC), Laos-China Railway, China Heavy Machinery Corporation (CHMCC), Northern International and China Southern Grid participated in the meeting. The meeting was chaired by Qu Tao, Chief Representative of Hong Kong Representative Office of China Exim Bank. The theme of the symposium was "Integrate development and security, and promote the high-quality development of jointly building the 'Belt and Road'". At the meeting, Counselor Zhao Wenyu firstly welcomed the delegation of Export-Import Bank of China and expressed his gratitude to the Chinese banks and enterprises for their efforts to promote China-Laos friendship and cooperation, and briefly introduced the economic and social development of Laos. Subsequently, the participating units briefly introduced their business development and key projects in Laos, and the delegation of China Exim Bank and the participating units carried out in-depth exchanges and discussions on risk prevention and control, compliance operation, etc., and put forward the opinions and suggestions on the high-quality development of overseas business through the joint efforts of banks and enterprises.
english_summary: On December 21st, a seminar for Chinese banks and enterprises in Laos was held in Vientiane. The theme of the symposium was "Integrate development and security, and promote the high-quality development of jointly building the 'Belt and Road'". The meeting was attended by Zhao Wenyu, Counselor of the Economic and Commercial Office of the Chinese Embassy in Laos, and Li Zhongyuan, Chief Risk Officer of the Export-Import Bank of China. The meeting was chaired by Qu Tao, Chief Representative of Hong Kong Representative Office of China Exim Bank. The individuals in charge of various companies, including the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, Bank of China, China Electricity Construction Corporation (CECC), Laos-China Railway, China Heavy Machinery Corporation (CHMCC), Northern International, and China Southern Grid, participated in the event. The meeting was held to discuss the integration of development and security, and the promotion of the high-quality development of jointly building the 'Belt and Road'. The participants briefly introduced their business development and key projects in Laos, and exchanged and discussed on risk prevention and control, compliance operation, and other topics. The Chinese banks and enterprises also put forward their opinions and suggestions on the high-quality development of overseas business through the joint efforts of banks and enterprises.
