html: nan
title: 商务部办公厅关于开展全国首批城市一刻钟便民生活圈试点评估工作的通知
resulting_text: 各省、自治区、直辖市、计划单列市及新疆生产建设兵团商务主管部门： 为落实《商务部等12部门关于推进城市一刻钟便民生活圈建设的意见》（商流通函〔2021〕176号，以下简称《意见》）和《商务部等13部门办公厅（室）关于印发<全面推进城市一刻钟便民生活圈建设三年行动计划（2023-2025）>的通知》（商办流通函〔2023〕401号，以下简称《三年行动》）有关要求，扎实做好全国首批试点地区评估工作，推动形成一批可复制推广的典型经验，现将有关事项通知如下： 一、评估范围 30个全国首批城市一刻钟便民生活圈试点地区。 二、评估内容 （一）试点地区工作情况。 按照《意见》要求，对首批试点地区完成试点的整体情况进行总结，包括完成任务目标情况、经验做法、取得成效、存在的问题及建议、下一步对三年推广期的安排。按照《试点地区一刻钟便民生活圈建设工作评估指标计分表》（附件1），从顶层设计、组织实施、政策保障、营商环境、建设成效等5个方面进行评估，85分以上为优秀，70-85分为良好，60-70分为合格。 （二）便民生活圈建设情况。 按照《一刻钟便民生活圈业态“有没有”分型表》《一刻钟便民生活圈服务“好不好”评价表》（详见《三年行动》附件），对建设完成的便民生活圈进行评价分型，划定“基础型、提升型、品质型”。 三、评估程序 （一）试点地区商务 主管 部门自评。 各试点地区（含计划单列市）商务主管部门全面总结试点经验和成效，形成自评报告，并准备相关材料。对建设完成的便民生活圈进行分型自评，汇总填写《试点地区一刻钟便民生活圈分型评价统计表》（附件2）。2023年9月30日前将自评报告及相关材料报省级商务主管部门。 （二）省级商务 主管 部门复核。 各省级商务主管部门采取书面、现场相结合的方式，对试点地区完成试点工作情况和便民生活圈分型自评结果进行复核，形成复核报告。10月20日前将复核报告及试点地区相关自评材料（含电子版）统一报商务部（流通发展司）。 四、工作要求 （一） 实事求是， 稳步推进 。 坚持实事求是的原则，稳步推进评估工作，做到“成熟一个、评估一个、推广一个”。建设成效不明显或预期目标暂未实现的，可以申请延期半年评估。对于未通过评估或申请延期评估的试点地区，要督促其尽快补齐短板弱项，完成预期任务目标。 （ 二 ） 科学 评估 ， 客观分析 。 从顶层设计、具体措施、完成目标、实际成效等方面进行系统分析评估，客观准确反映建设成果，相关结论要有定性、定量指标和数据支撑。各地可结合实际，对本通知明确的评估指标、程序、报送材料等进行细化和补充。 （三）问题导向，以评促建。 要通过评估加强对试点地区的指导，推动便民生活圈建设走深走实。针对发现的问题和不足，督促试点地区采取有针对性的改进措施。指导试点地区对三年推广期作出科学安排，建立长效工作机制，不断扩大便民生活圈覆盖范围。 （ 四 ） 加强总结，提炼经验 。 要通过评估工作对首批试点工作进行全面总结，梳理试点地区在政策创新、制度创新、管理创新、模式创新等方面可复制推广的经验做法。要坚持因地制宜、突出特色，打造一批便民生活圈建设的典型样板，通过组织召开现场会等方式，加大宣传推广力度。 联系人：流通发展司  罗艺  汪文清 电  话：010-85093763，010-85093777 地  址：北京市东城区东长安街2号商务部流通发展司 邮  箱：luoyi@mofcom.gov.cn 附件：1.试点地区一刻钟便民生活圈建设工作评估指标 计分表 2.试点地区一刻钟便民生活圈分型评价统计表 商务部办公厅 2023年9月7日 附件表格下载链接.xlsx
input_url: 20230915211450/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkgztz/202309/20230903440237.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230921152038/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkgztz/202309/20230903440237.shtml
date: 2023-09-16 00:00:00
translated_title: Notice of the General Office of the Ministry of Commerce on the Evaluation of the Pilot Work of the First Batch of Quarter-hour Convenient Living Area in Cities Across China
translated_content: Provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the Central Government, municipalities with separate plans and Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps, the competent departments in charge of commerce: In order to implement the "Opinions of the Ministry of Commerce and other 12 departments on promoting the construction of the quarter-hour convenient living area of the city" (Circulation of Commerce Letter [2021] No. 176, hereinafter referred to as the "Opinions") and the "Ministry of Commerce and other 13 departments of the General Office (Office) on the issuance of the <comprehensively promote the construction of the quarter-hour convenient living area of the city three-year The Ministry of Commerce and other 13 departments of the Office (Office) on the issuance of "comprehensively promote the construction of urban quarter-hour convenient living area three-year action plan (2023-2025) > notice" (Business Circulation Letter [2023] No. 401, hereinafter referred to as the "Three-Year Action") requirements, a solid job in the first pilot areas of the country to assess the formation of a number of replicable typical experience, is hereby notified of the relevant matters are as follows: First, the scope of the assessment of the 30 national first quarter-hour urban convenient living area pilot areas. Evaluation content (a) the work of the pilot areas. In accordance with the requirements of the "Opinions", the first pilot areas to complete the pilot of the overall situation is summarized, including the completion of the task objectives, experience, practices, achievements, problems and recommendations, the next step in the three-year promotion period of the arrangements. In accordance with the "Pilot Areas Quarter-hour Convenient Living Area Construction Work Evaluation Indicator Score Sheet" (Annex 1), from the top-level design, organization and implementation, policy protection, business environment, construction effectiveness and other five aspects of the assessment, 85 points or more for excellent, 70-85 for good, 60-70 for qualified. (ii) Construction of convenient living area. In accordance with the "Quarter-hour Convenient Living Circle Industry "There is no" typing table" "Quarter-hour Convenient Living Circle Service "Good" Evaluation Table" (see the annex to the "Three-Year Action" for details), the construction of the completed convenient living circle evaluation typing, delineation of the "Basic, Enhancement and Quality". (a) Self-assessment by the competent departments of commerce in the pilot regions. The competent business department of each pilot region (including cities with separate plans) comprehensively summarizes the pilot experience and effectiveness, forms a self-assessment report, and prepares relevant materials. The construction of the completion of the convenient living area to carry out self-assessment of subtypes, summarize and fill out the "pilot area quarter-hour convenient living area subtypes of the evaluation of statistical tables" (Annex 2). 2023 September 30 will be the self-assessment report and related materials reported to the provincial business department. (ii) Review by the competent provincial commerce department. Provincial competent departments of commerce to take a combination of written, on-site, the pilot areas to complete the pilot work and convenient living area typing self-assessment results for review, the formation of review reports. 20 October will review the report and the pilot areas of the relevant self-assessment materials (including electronic version) unified report to the Ministry of Commerce (Circulation Development Division). Fourth, the work requirements (a) Seek truth from facts, and steadily promote. Adhere to the principle of seeking truth from facts, and steadily promote the assessment work, so that "maturity of a, assessment of a, promote a". If the construction results are not obvious or the expected goals have not been realized for the time being, it is possible to apply for an extension of the assessment for half a year. For pilot areas that have not passed the assessment or have applied for an extension of the assessment, it is necessary to urge them to make up for the shortcomings and weaknesses as soon as possible and complete the expected tasks and objectives. (ii) Scientific assessment and objective analysis. Systematic analysis and assessment will be conducted from the top-level design, specific measures, completion targets and actual results, so as to objectively and accurately reflect the construction results, and the relevant conclusions should be supported by qualitative and quantitative indicators and data. Each region can take into account the actual situation and refine and supplement the assessment indicators, procedures and submission materials specified in this notice. (III) Problem-oriented, assessment for construction. Guidance to the pilot areas should be strengthened through the assessment to promote the construction of convenient living areas in a deep and practical manner. In view of the problems and deficiencies identified, the pilot areas will be urged to take targeted improvement measures. The pilot areas will be guided to make scientific arrangements for the three-year promotion period, establish a long-term working mechanism, and continuously expand the coverage of convenient living areas. (iv) Strengthen summarization and refinement of experience. The first batch of pilot work should be comprehensively summarized through the assessment work, and the replicable experiences and practices of the pilot areas in policy innovation, system innovation, management innovation and model innovation should be sorted out. To adhere to local conditions, highlighting the characteristics, to create a number of convenient living area construction of typical samples, through the organization of on-site meetings and other ways to increase publicity and promotion. Contact: Circulation Development Department Luo Yi Wang Wenqing Tel: 010-85093763, 010-85093777 Address: 2 East Chang'an Street, Dongcheng District, Beijing Circulation Development Department, Ministry of Commerce E-mail: luoyi@mofcom.gov.cn Annexes: 1. Pilot areas of the quarter-hour convenience living circle construction assessment indicators Scoring table 2. Statistical Table of Typical Evaluation General Office of the Ministry of Commerce September 7, 2023 Annex Forms Download Link.xlsx
english_summary: The General Office of the Ministry of Commerce is conducting a pilot project to assess the first batch of 30-minute urban convenient living areas across China. The assessment will evaluate the progress in the three-year promotion period, including the completion of tasks, experiences, practices, achievements, problems, and recommendations. The assessment will be based on the "Pilot Areas Quarter-hour Convenient Living Area Construction Work Evaluation Indicator Score Sheet" and the "Quarter-hour Convenient Living Circle Service Evaluation Table." The competent departments of commerce in each pilot region will comprehensively summarize the pilot experience and effectiveness, form a self-assessment report, and prepare relevant materials. Provincial competent departments of commerce will review the self-assessment results and submit the report and relevant materials to the Ministry of Commerce. The assessment aims to promote the construction of convenient living areas and identify replicable typical experiences.
