html: nan
title: 云南临沧招商引资洽谈会在仰光举行
resulting_text: 近日，云南省临沧市市长杜建辉率团访问缅甸，并于3月23日在仰光举行临沧市招商引资洽谈会。中国驻缅甸使馆经济商务参赞谭书富出席并致辞。缅甸中华总商会会长林文猛、缅甸中国企业商会常务副会长姚凤刚及在缅中资、侨资企业代表等约60人参加。 谭书富表示，临沧市高度重视对缅开放合作，全国两会胜利闭幕后不久即率先来访并举办招商引资洽谈会。临沧与缅甸山水相连，拥有多个口岸、贸易通道和边民互市点，对缅开放拥有独特区位优势和坚实合作基础，使馆愿协助临沧继续发挥自身优势，乘势而上，不断深化对缅各领域务实合作。 杜建辉表示，临沧正利用自身对缅地缘优势，聚力推动对缅开放合作，未来发展空间巨大，邀请与会企业家考察、投资临沧。 会上，临沧市有关负责同志进行了招商引资推介，同企业代表就临沧市对缅开放合作进行了交流。
input_url: 20230329054127/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202303/20230303398887.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230328012508/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202303/20230303398887.shtml
date: 2023-03-29 00:00:00
translated_title: Yunnan Lincang Investment Fair held in Yangon
translated_content: Recently, Du Jianhui, Mayor of Lincang City, Yunnan Province, led a delegation to visit Myanmar and held the Lincang Investment Promotion Seminar on March 23rd in Yangon. Tan Shufu, Economic and Commercial Counselor of the Chinese Embassy in Myanmar, attended and delivered a speech. Mr. Lin Wenmeng, President of Myanmar Chinese Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Yao Fenggang, Executive Vice President of Myanmar Chinese Enterprises Chamber of Commerce, and representatives of Chinese-funded and overseas-funded enterprises in Myanmar attended the seminar, which was attended by about 60 people. Tan Shufu said, Lincang City attaches great importance to the opening up of cooperation with Myanmar, soon after the successful conclusion of the National People's Congress, it took the lead in visiting and organizing investment promotion seminars. Lincang and Myanmar are connected by mountains and waters, with a number of ports, trade corridors and border people's market points, opening up to Myanmar has a unique location advantage and a solid foundation for cooperation, the Embassy is willing to assist Lincang to continue to give full play to its own advantages, to take advantage of the momentum, and continue to deepen the practical cooperation with Myanmar in various fields. Du Jianhui said that Lincang is utilizing its own geographic advantages to Myanmar, focusing on promoting the opening up of cooperation with Myanmar, the future development space is huge, and invited the participating entrepreneurs to visit and invest in Lincang. At the meeting, the relevant responsible comrades of Lincang City, investment promotion, with business representatives on the Lincang City, Myanmar openness and cooperation exchanges.
english_summary: The Yunnan Lincang Investment Fair was recently held in Yangon, Myanmar. Du Jianhui, Mayor of Lincang City, led a delegation to visit Myanmar and held the Lincang Investment Promotion Seminar on March 23rd in Yangon. Tan Shufu, Economic and Commercial Counselor of the Chinese Embassy in Myanmar, attended and delivered a speech. Mr. Lin Wenmeng, President of Myanmar Chinese Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Yao Fenggang, Executive Vice President of Myanmar Chinese Enterprises Chamber of Commerce, and representatives of Chinese-funded and overseas-funded enterprises in Myanmar attended the seminar, which was attended by about 60 people.
