html: nan
title: 商务部、发展改革委发布《商务领域经营者使用、报告一次性塑料制品管理办法》
resulting_text: 为深入贯彻习近平生态文明思想，扎实推进商务领域塑料污染治理工作，依据《中华人民共和国固体废物污染环境防治法》，商务部、发展改革委联合制定并于近日发布《商务领域经营者使用、报告一次性塑料制品管理办法》（以下简称《管理办法》）。 《管理办法》提出，国家推行绿色发展方式，倡导简约适度、绿色低碳的生活方式，鼓励减少使用一次性塑料制品，科学稳妥推广应用替代产品，引导公众积极参与塑料污染治理。商品零售、电子商务、餐饮、住宿、展览等商务领域经营者应当遵守国家有关禁止、限制使用不可降解塑料袋等一次性塑料制品的规定。 《管理办法》明确，商品零售场所开办单位、电子商务平台（含外卖平台）企业和外卖企业应当遵循真实、完整的原则，定期报告一次性塑料制品使用、回收情况。同时，鼓励各报告主体主动报告替代产品使用、回收情况。 《管理办法》要求，有关部门对本行政区域内商务领域经营者执行国家禁止、限制不可降解塑料袋等一次性塑料制品使用规定及一次性塑料制品报告活动实施监督管理。
input_url: 20230519055136/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202305/20230503409830.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230517071141/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcfb/202305/20230503409830.shtml
date: 2023-05-19 00:00:00
translated_title: The Ministry of Commerce and the Development and Reform Commission issued the Measures for the Administration of the Use and Reporting of Disposable Plastic Products by Operators in the Business Sector
translated_content: In order to deeply implement Xi Jinping's thought on ecological civilization, and solidly promote the management of plastic pollution in the business sector, based on the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Prevention and Control of Environmental Pollution by Solid Wastes, the Ministry of Commerce and the Development and Reform Commission have jointly formulated and recently issued the Measures for the Management of the Use and Reporting of Disposable Plastic Products by Business Operators in the Business Sector (hereinafter referred to as the "Measures for the Management of the Management of the Management of Plastic Products"). The Administrative Measures propose that the State implement a green development approach, advocate a simple and moderate, green and low-carbon lifestyle, encourage the reduction of the use of disposable plastic products, promote the application of alternative products in a scientific and prudent manner, and guide the public to actively participate in the management of plastic pollution. Operators in the fields of commodity retailing, e-commerce, catering, accommodation, exhibitions and other business areas should comply with the state regulations on banning and restricting the use of non-degradable plastic bags and other disposable plastic products. The Administrative Measures make it clear that operators of commodity retail establishments, e-commerce platforms (including takeaway platforms) enterprises and takeaway enterprises should follow the principle of truthfulness and completeness, and regularly report on the use and recycling of disposable plastic products. At the same time, the reporting entities are encouraged to take the initiative to report on the use and recycling of alternative products. The Administrative Measures require that the relevant departments implement supervision and management of the implementation of the national regulations on the prohibition and restriction of the use of non-degradable plastic bags and other disposable plastic products by operators in the business sector within the administrative region, as well as the reporting activities of disposable plastic products.
english_summary: The Ministry of Commerce and the Development and Reform Commission have jointly issued measures to effectively manage dis
