html: nan
title: 世贸成员举行“塑料污染与环境可持续塑料贸易”2023年第二次非正式对话
resulting_text: 2023年5月25日，“塑料污染与环境可持续塑料贸易”(IDP)倡议方举行2023年第二次非正式对话会。会议由李成钢大使和摩洛哥常驻日内瓦代表团 Omar ZNIBER大使联合主持，来自世贸组织成员、国际组织、非政府组织和学术界逾130名代表参加会议。李成钢大使在开场致辞中指出，IDP通过二年多的对话已在多方面取得长足进展，现在到了一个迈上新台阶的关键时刻。联署方将共同努力，争取在MC13上取得务实成果。强调IDP将坚持开放包容的原则，继续和联合国环境规划署(UNEP)的塑料污染政府间谈判委员会（INC）的进程保持密切合作和良好互动，并积极为以WTO为核心的多边贸易体制做贡献。 摩洛哥、厄瓜多尔、巴巴多斯、澳大利亚等其他四位IDP协调方大使和WTO秘书处贸易与环境司司长分享了对IDP的看法和期待，国际竹藤组织（INBAR）介绍了其与中国政府倡导的“以竹代塑”倡议，联合国粮农组织（FAO）、国际污染物消除网络（IPEN）和巴塞尔公约、鹿特丹公约和斯德哥尔摩公约秘书处（BRS）介绍了其应对塑料污染的最新进展。诸多成员以及国际组织的代表发言，就IDP的MC13成果愿景和要素草案提出了意见建议。 李大使在会议总结中介绍了IDP的后续工作路线图，再次强调IDP将积极开展国际合作，呼吁WTO成员踊跃分享经验做法，鼓励联署方积极开展外联，并在未来的工作中进一步关注发展中成员需要，共同推进能力建设和技术援助。 会议期间，国际竹藤组织在WTO举办了一个小型“以竹代塑”展览。
input_url: 20230602231411/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202305/20230503413095.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230531173725/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202305/20230503413095.shtml
date: 2023-06-03 00:00:00
translated_title: Second Informal Dialogue on Plastic Pollution and Trade in Environmentally Sustainable Plastics 2023 among WTO Members
translated_content: On 25 May 2023, the Second Informal Dialogue 2023 was organized by the Initiative on Plastic Pollution and Environmentally Sustainable Plastics Trade (IDP). Co-chaired by Ambassador Li Chenggang and Ambassador Omar ZNIBER of the Permanent Mission of Morocco in Geneva, the meeting was attended by more than 130 participants from WTO members, international organizations, NGOs and academia. In his opening speech, Ambassador Li Chenggang pointed out that the IDP has made great progress in many aspects through more than two years of dialogues, and now it has come to a critical moment to take a new step forward. The co-sponsors will work together to achieve pragmatic results at MC13. It is emphasized that IDP will adhere to the principle of openness and inclusiveness, continue to maintain close cooperation and good interaction with the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP)'s Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee (INC) on Plastic Pollution (INC) process, and actively contribute to the multilateral trading system with the WTO at its core. Four other ambassadors of IDP coordinators, including Morocco, Ecuador, Barbados and Australia, and the Director of the Trade and Environment Division of the WTO Secretariat, shared their views and expectations on IDP, the International Network for Bamboo and Rattan (INBAR) introduced the "Bamboo instead of Plastic" initiative advocated by INBAR and the Chinese Government, the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the International Pollutant Elimination Network (IPEN), and the World Health Organization (WHO). The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), the International Pollutant Elimination Network (IPEN) and the secretariats of the Basel, Rotterdam and Stockholm Conventions (BRS) presented their latest progress in addressing plastic pollution. Many members and representatives of international organizations took the floor to provide comments and suggestions on the IDP's draft MC13 Outcome Vision and Elements. In his summary of the meeting, Ambassador Li introduced the roadmap for the follow-up work of the IDP, re-emphasized that the IDP will actively engage in international cooperation, called on WTO members to share their experiences and practices, encouraged co-sponsors to actively engage in outreach, and further focus on the needs of the developing members in the future work, and jointly promote capacity building and technical assistance. During the meeting, the International Network for Bamboo and Rattan (INBAR) organized a small "Bamboo instead of Plastic" exhibition at WTO.
english_summary: The Second Informal Dialogue on Plastic Pollution and Trade in Environmentally Sustainable Plastics 2023 was held on 25 May 2023, co-chaired by Ambassador Li Chenggang and Ambassador Omar ZNIBER of the Permanent Mission of Morocco in Geneva. More than 130 participants from WTO members, international organizations, NGOs and academia attended the meeting. The dialogue aimed to achieve practical results at MC13 and emphasized openness, inclusiveness, and cooperation with other organizations. Representatives from various organizations shared their views and expectations on IDP, and the latest progress in addressing plastic pollution was presented by FAO, IPEN, and the secretariats of the Basel, Rotterdam and Stockholm Conventions. The meeting also included a "Bamboo instead of Plastic" exhibition organized by the International Network for Bamboo and Rattan (INBAR).
