html: nan
title: 商务部驻西安特办与陕西省商务厅举行座谈并签署共商共建合作机制协议
resulting_text: 1月12日上午，陕西省商务厅党组书记贾锋、厅长杨淼带队拜会商务部驻西安特派员办事处，就共商共建工作进行座谈，西安特办副特派员谢莹、原特派员胡剑萍出席。座谈会由西安特办副特派员谢莹主持。 谢莹介绍了西安特办工作情况和商务部赋能西安特办事项，并对商务厅给予的服务保障表示感谢；贾锋介绍了2023年陕西商务工作情况和2024年工作设想，并对西安特办一直以来的指导和支持表示感谢。 座谈会上，谢莹、杨淼共同签署《商务部驻西安特办 陕西省商务厅关于共商共建的合作机制协议》，就共同推动建立合作机制、扩大陕西对内对外开放、促进外贸保稳提质、开展消费促进和招商引资活动等方面达成合作共识。下一步，双方要以签订合作机制协议为契机，加强联系沟通和合作共建，推动党中央国务院和商务部部署的各项重点工作在陕西有效落实，促进陕西商务事业和经济高质量发展。
input_url: 20240119234321/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202401/20240103466248.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20240117081024/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202401/20240103466248.shtml
date: 2024-01-20 00:00:00
translated_title: The Special Office of the Ministry of Commerce in Xi'an and the Department of Commerce of Shaanxi Province held talks and signed an agreement on the co-operation mechanism for discussing and building cooperation.
translated_content: On the morning of January 12, Jia Feng, Secretary of the Party Group of the Department of Commerce of Shaanxi Province, and Yang Miao, Director of the Department of Commerce, visited the Office of the Commissioner of the Ministry of Commerce in Xi'an, and held a seminar on the work of joint consultation and co-establishment, which was attended by Xie Ying, Deputy Commissioner of the Xi'an Special Office, and Hu Jianping, Former Commissioner of the Xi'an Special Office. The seminar was hosted by Xie Ying, Deputy Commissioner of Xi'an Special Commission Office. Xie Ying introduced the work situation of Xi'an Special Office and the matters of the Ministry of Commerce empowering Xi'an Special Office, and expressed her thanks to the Department of Commerce for the services and guarantees; Jia Feng introduced the work situation of Shaanxi Business in 2023 and the work vision in 2024, and expressed his thanks to the Xi'an Special Office for the guidance and support all along. At the symposium, Xie Ying and Yang Miao signed the Agreement on Cooperation Mechanism of the Special Office of the Ministry of Commerce in Xi'an and the Department of Commerce of Shaanxi Province on Joint Consultation and Co-construction, and reached a consensus on cooperation in terms of jointly promoting the establishment of a cooperation mechanism, expanding Shaanxi's opening up to the outside world internally and externally, promoting the preservation of stability and improvement of quality of foreign trade, and carrying out activities of consumption promotion and investment attraction. As a next step, the two sides should take the signing of the cooperation mechanism agreement as an opportunity to strengthen the contact and communication and cooperation and co-construction, to promote the effective implementation of the key tasks deployed by the CPC Central Committee and State Council and the Ministry of Commerce in Shaanxi, and to promote the high-quality development of Shaanxi's business and economy.
english_summary: The Special Office of the Ministry of Commerce in Xi'an and the Department of Commerce of Shaanxi Province have signed an agreement on the co-operation mechanism for discussing and building cooperation. This was announced on January 12, as officials from both parties met to exchange ideas on how to best promote the establishment of a cooperation mechanism, expand Shaanxi's opening up to the outside world internally and externally, and promote the preservation of stability and improvement of quality of foreign trade.

In attendance at the seminar were Xie Ying, Deputy Commissioner of the Xi'an Special Office, and Hu Jianping, Former Commissioner of the Xi'an Special Office. During the event, the two parties reached an agreement on cooperation and noted the urgent need to strengthen the contact and communication and cooperation and co-construction, to promote the effective implementation of key tasks and promote the high-quality development of Shaanxi's business and economy.
