html: nan
title: 商务部流通业发展司负责人解读 《商务领域经营者使用、报告一次性塑料制品管理办法》 [政策原文] [图文解说]
resulting_text: 日前，商务部、发展改革委联合发布《商务领域经营者使用、报告一次性塑料制品管理办法》（以下简称《管理办法》）。《管理办法》重点对商务领域经营者使用、报告一次性塑料制品提出规范要求。 问题一：《管理办法》出台背景和意义是什么？ 答：塑料广泛应用于社会生产和居民生活，塑料制品如果在使用环节处置不当，将会造成“白色污染”，给自然资源和生态环境带来严重影响，对全球可持续发展形成巨大挑战。 多年来，党中央、国务院高度重视塑料污染治理工作。2020年1月，中央全面深化改革委员会第十次会议审议通过《关于进一步加强塑料污染治理的意见》，确定了分行业、分阶段、分地区禁止、限制部分塑料制品的生产、销售和使用的工作目标。同年4月，第十三届全国人大常务委员会第十七次会议修订通过的《固体废物污染环境防治法》（以下简称《固废法》），增加了商务领域塑料污染治理专门条款。2021年9月，发展改革委、生态环境部联合印发的《“十四五”塑料污染治理行动方案》，从积极推动塑料生产和使用源头减量、加快推进塑料废弃物规范回收利用和处置、大力开展重点区域塑料垃圾清理整治等方面，细化明确了具体任务。2022年11月，中国政府同国际竹藤组织共同发起“以竹代塑”倡议，推动减少塑料污染，加快落实联合国2030年可持续发展议程。 商务领域在塑料污染全链条治理中处于承上启下的重要位置，既可通过反馈消费端市场需求影响上游厂家的产品设计理念，又实际承担着规范部分塑料制品使用、报告行为的社会责任。 近年来，商务部认真落实《固废法》及相关政策文件要求，建立了一次性塑料制品报告制度，不断加强商品零售、电子商务、餐饮、住宿、展览等重点行业管理，持续完善《固废法》配套制度。 商务部联合发展改革委印发《管理办法》，是推动形成绿色低碳的生产方式和生活方式的重要举措，是减少传统塑料使用，协同推进降碳、减污、扩绿的具体行动，对于增强塑料制品绿色替代供给、培育绿色消费理念具有重要意义。 问题二：《管理办法》具体包括哪些内容？ 答：《管理办法》共五章30条，主要包括：第一章，总则，涵盖立法目的、适用范围、整体要求、部门分工、协会职责等；第二章，商务领域经营者规范，主要包括商品零售、电子商务、餐饮、住宿、展览等商务领域经营者有关义务，明确报告主体报告一次性塑料制品的要求、规范、时限等内容；第三章，监督管理，对执行国家禁止、限制使用塑料制品要求及使用、回收报告活动实施日常监督检查等作出规定；第四章，法律责任，针对违反禁止、限制使用塑料制品及使用、回收报告规定的行为，明确相应法律责任；第五章，附则，包括实施细则、解释权限、实施时间等。 问题三：《管理办法》对商务领域经营者一次性塑料制品的使用行为具体都有哪些规范性要求？ 答：《管理办法》明确，商品零售、电子商务、餐饮、住宿、展览等五类经营者应当遵守国家有关禁止、限制使用不可降解塑料袋等一次性塑料制品的规定。 《管理办法》要求，商品零售经营者，应向消费者有偿提供塑料购物袋，并通过设置替代产品售卖装置，提供购物筐、购物车租赁等方式减少一次性塑料制品使用。电子商务经营者，要优先采用可重复使用、易回收利用的包装物，推广电商快件原装直发。电子商务平台，应制定鼓励平台内经营者减少快递包装和外卖环节一次性塑料制品使用的平台规则。餐饮经营者，提供打包或外卖服务时，应合理选用替代产品或合规的一次性塑料制品。住宿经营者，按国家禁止、限制部分塑料制品使用有关规定，不得主动向消费者提供一次性塑料制品。展馆经营者，应通过展览活动主办单位告知参展单位等国家禁止、限制部分塑料制品使用相关规定。 需要说明的是，商务领域市场主体应在经营场所或网站醒目位置张贴、摆放或设置国家禁限使用规定的标语或链接标识。同时，鼓励引导消费者使用替代产品，减少一次性塑料制品的使用。 问题四：《管理办法》如何规范商务领域经营者一次性塑料制品使用、回收的报告行为？ 答：《管理办法》落实《固废法》有关要求，规定商品零售场所开办单位、电子商务平台企业和外卖企业，每半年向所在地县级商务主管部门报告塑料购物袋、快递塑料包装、一次性塑料餐具等一次性塑料制品的使用、回收情况。 《管理办法》对商务领域一次性塑料制品使用行为和报告行为的规范要求有所区别。比如，使用行为规范的是商品零售、电子商务、餐饮、住宿、展览等五类主体；报告行为规范的是零售场所开办单位、电子商务平台企业和外卖企业等三类主体。再如，使用行为规范的是不可降解塑料袋等一次性塑料制品，报告行为规范的则是塑料袋等一次性塑料制品，不区分是否可降解。 《管理办法》提出，各报告主体报告一次性塑料制品使用情况时，口径必须前后保持一致。同时，《管理办法》鼓励各报告主体积极主动报告替代产品使用、回收情况。
input_url: 20230524211247/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcjd/202305/20230503411301.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230522203200/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkzcjd/202305/20230503411301.shtml
date: 2023-05-25 00:00:00
translated_title: Interpretation of the Measures for the Administration of the Use and Reporting of Disposable Plastic Products by Operators in the Business Sector by the Head of the Circulation Industry Development Department of the Ministry of Commerce [Original version of the policy] [Illustration]
translated_content: Recently, the Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) and the Development and Reform Commission (DRC) jointly issued the Administrative Measures for the Use and Reporting of Disposable Plastic Products by Operators in the Business Sector (hereinafter referred to as the Administrative Measures). The Administrative Measures focus on regulating the use and reporting of disposable plastic products by business operators. Question 1: What is the background and significance of the Administrative Measures? A: Plastics are widely used in social production and residents' life. If plastic products are improperly disposed of in the use chain, it will cause "white pollution", which will have a serious impact on natural resources and ecological environment, and pose a great challenge to global sustainable development. Over the years, the CPC Central Committee and the State Council have attached great importance to the management of plastic pollution, and in January 2020, the 10th meeting of the Central Committee for Comprehensively Deepening Reform considered and passed the Opinions on Further Strengthening the Management of Plastic Pollution, which set out the objectives of banning and restricting the production, sale and use of some plastic products in different industries, phases and regions. In April of the same year, the Law on the Prevention and Control of Solid Waste Pollution (hereinafter referred to as the Solid Waste Law), which was revised and adopted at the 17th meeting of the Standing Committee of the 13th National People's Congress, added a special clause on the governance of plastic pollution in the field of commerce.2021 In September 2021, the Fourteenth Five-Year Plan Plastic Pollution In September 2021, the Development and Reform Commission and the Ministry of Ecology and Environment jointly issued the "14th Five-Year Plan" Action Plan for Plastic Pollution Control, which details and clarifies specific tasks in terms of actively promoting the reduction of plastic production and use at the source, accelerating the standardized recycling and disposal of plastic waste, and vigorously carrying out the cleanup and remediation of plastic garbage in key areas. In November 2022, the Chinese government and the International Organization for Bamboo and Rattan jointly launched the "Bamboo Instead of Plastic" initiative to promote the reduction of plastic pollution and accelerate the implementation of the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The business sector is in an important position in the whole chain of plastic pollution management, not only through the feedback of the consumer side of the market demand to influence the upstream manufacturers of product design concepts, but also the actual assumption of the social responsibility to regulate the use of some plastic products, reporting behavior. In recent years, the Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM) has earnestly implemented the requirements of the Solid Waste Law and related policy documents, established a reporting system for disposable plastic products, and continuously strengthened the management of key industries such as retailing of commodities, e-commerce, catering, lodging, exhibitions, etc., and continued to improve the supporting system of the Solid Waste Law. The issuance of the Administrative Measures by the Ministry of Commerce in conjunction with the Development and Reform Commission is an important initiative to promote the formation of green and low-carbon modes of production and lifestyles, and it is a concrete action to reduce the use of traditional plastics, synergistically push forward the reduction of carbon emissions, reduce pollution, and expand greenery, which is of great significance in enhancing the supply of green alternatives to plastic products and fostering the concept of green consumption. Question 2: What are the specific contents of the Management Measures? A: There are five chapters and 30 articles in the Administrative Measures, mainly including: Chapter 1, General Provisions, covering the purpose of legislation, scope of application, overall requirements, division of labor among departments, responsibilities of associations, etc.; Chapter 2, Specifications for Operators in the Business Sector, which mainly includes the obligations of operators in the business sector such as commodity retailing, e-commerce, catering, lodging and exhibition, etc., and specifies the requirements, specifications and timeframes for reporting of disposable plastic products by reporting entities. Chapter III, Supervision and Administration, provides for the daily supervision and inspection of the implementation of the national requirements for the prohibition and restriction of the use of plastic products and the use and recycling of reporting activities; Chapter IV, Legal Liability, specifies the corresponding legal liability for the violation of the prohibition and restriction of the use of plastic products and the use and recycling of reporting requirements; Chapter V, Supplementary Provisions, including the implementation rules, the authority to interpret, and the time of implementation. Question 3: What are the specific regulatory requirements for the use of disposable plastic products by operators in the business sector? A: The Administrative Measures specify that five types of operators, including retailing of goods, e-commerce, catering, accommodation and exhibition, shall comply with the state regulations on prohibiting and restricting the use of non-degradable plastic bags and other disposable plastic products. The Administrative Measures require that operators of commodity retailing should provide consumers with plastic shopping bags for a fee, and reduce the use of disposable plastic products by setting up alternative product selling devices and providing shopping baskets and shopping carts for rent. E-commerce operators, should prioritize the use of reusable, easy to recycle packaging, and promote e-commerce express original direct shipping. E-commerce platforms, should develop platform rules that encourage operators within the platform to reduce the use of disposable plastic products in express packaging and takeaway sessions. Catering operators, when providing packaging or takeaway services, should reasonably use alternative products or compliant disposable plastic products. Accommodation operators, according to the national ban and restriction on the use of some plastic products related regulations, shall not actively provide consumers with disposable plastic products. Exhibition hall operators shall inform exhibitors through the organizers of exhibition activities of the relevant provisions of the state banning and restricting the use of some plastic products. It should be noted that market players in the business sector should post, place or set up slogans or link signs of the national regulations on banning and restricting the use of plastic products in their business premises or websites in a conspicuous position. At the same time, they are encouraged to guide consumers to use alternative products to reduce the use of single-use plastic products. Question 4: How do the Administrative Measures regulate the reporting behavior of the use and recycling of single-use plastic products by operators in the business sector? A: The Administrative Measures implement the relevant requirements of the Solid Waste Law, stipulating that the operators of commodity retail establishments, e-commerce platform enterprises and take-away enterprises shall report to the competent department of commerce at the county level where they are located on the use and recycling of disposable plastic products, such as plastic shopping bags, plastic packaging for express delivery and disposable plastic tableware, every six months. The Management Measures make a difference in the requirements for regulating the use of disposable plastic products and reporting behavior in the field of commerce. For example, the use of behavior specification is commodity retail, e-commerce, catering, lodging, exhibitions and other five types of subjects; reporting behavior specification is the retail premises start-up units, e-commerce platform enterprises and takeaway enterprises and other three types of subjects. Again, the use behavior specification is non-biodegradable plastic bags and other disposable plastic products; the reporting behavior specification is plastic bags and other disposable plastic products, without distinguishing whether they are biodegradable or not. The Management Measures propose that the caliber of each reporting subject must be consistent when reporting on the use of single-use plastic products. At the same time, the Management Measures encourage reporting entities to proactively report on the use and recycling of alternative products.
english_summary: The Administrative Measures for the Use and Reporting of Disposable Plastic Products by Operators in the Business Sector, jointly issued by the Ministry of Commerce and the Development and Reform Commission, aim to regulate the use and reporting of disposable plastic products by business operators and reduce plastic pollution. The measures include specific requirements for operators in various industries, such as retailing, e-commerce, catering, and exhibitions, to comply with national regulations on the prohibition and restriction of the use of plastic products. Operators in these industries are required to reduce the use of disposable plastic products, offer alternative options, and provide slogans or signs about the national regulations. The measures also require reporting behavior from operators, such as the reporting of the use and recycling of disposable plastic products every six months. The issuance of these measures is considered significant in reducing the use of traditional plastics, promoting green and low-carbon production and consumption, and reducing pollution and expanding greenery.
