html: nan
title: 耿协威经商参赞拜会东贸易投资促进局局长
resulting_text: 5月3日，耿协威经商参赞拜会东贸易投资促进局局长达席瓦尔，就深化双边经贸关系、加强务实合作等事项交换意见。李小凤三秘陪同会见。 耿参指出，近年来，中东贸易规模持续扩大，东方产品连续5年参加中国国际进口博览会，不断开拓中国市场，具有较强适应性，中东经贸交流呈现健康稳定发展势头。中国拥有庞大消费市场和多元化消费潜力，中方愿推动对东实施98%税目产品零关税待遇，不断增强东产品对华出口竞争力，助力东共享中国市场机遇与发展成果。 耿参表示，近年来，东申请加入世贸组织和东盟均取得重大进展，中方坚定支持东尽早正式加入，对相关谈判进展衷心祝贺，乐见其成。中方高度重视并将继续与东高质量共建“一带一路”，致力形成更多宽领域、可持续、惠民生合作成果。 达席瓦尔局长感谢中方长期以来对东发展的大力支持，表示愿与中方共同推动“一带一路”深度合作，在贸易、投资和多双边合作等领域进一步加强沟通，深化合作，为两国企业和民众带来更多实惠和发展机遇。 会见后，耿参向达席瓦尔局长赠送了“一带一路”故事丛书--《共同梦想》。
input_url: 20230504031734/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202305/20230503407780.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230511011842/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202305/20230503407780.shtml
date: 2023-05-04 00:00:00
translated_title: Mr. Geng Xiewei, Economic and Commercial Counselor, called on the Director General of the East Trade and Investment Promotion Agency.
translated_content: On May 3, Mr. Geng Xiewei, Economic and Commercial Counselor, paid a visit to Mr. Dasilvar, Director General of the East Trade and Investment Promotion Agency, to exchange views on deepening bilateral economic and trade relations and strengthening pragmatic cooperation. Third Secretary Li Xiaofeng accompanied the meeting. Counselor Geng pointed out that in recent years, the scale of trade in the Middle East has continued to expand, and Eastern products have participated in the China International Import Expo for five consecutive years, and have continued to develop the Chinese market with strong adaptability, and the Middle East economic and trade exchanges have shown a healthy and stable development momentum. China has a huge consumer market and diversified consumption potential, China is willing to promote the implementation of zero-tariff treatment of 98% of the tax items of products in the East, and continuously enhance the competitiveness of the East products exported to China, and help the East to share the opportunities of China's market and the fruits of development. Mr. Geng said that in recent years, East's application for accession to the WTO and ASEAN has made significant progress, and China firmly supports East's formal accession as soon as possible, and sincerely congratulates and welcomes the progress of the relevant negotiations. China attaches great importance to and will continue to build a high-quality "One Belt, One Road" with the East, and is committed to forming more wide-ranging, sustainable and people-friendly cooperation results. Mr. Da Silva thanked China for its long-term support for the development of the East, and expressed his willingness to work with China to promote in-depth cooperation under the "Belt and Road", to further strengthen communication and deepen cooperation in the areas of trade, investment and bilateral and multilateral cooperation, so as to bring more benefits and development opportunities to enterprises and people of the two countries. After the meeting, Mr. Geng presented the book series of "Belt and Road" stories - "Common Dream" to Mr. Da Silva.
english_summary: Mr. Geng Xiewei, Economic and Commercial Counselor, met with Mr. Dasilvar, Director General of the East Trade and Investment Promotion Agency, on May 3 to discuss deepening bilateral economic and trade relations, strengthening pragmatic cooperation, and expanding trade between China and the Middle East. China is willing to promote the implementation of zero-tariff treatment for 98% of the tax items of products from the East, help the East share the opportunities of the Chinese market, and build a high-quality "Belt and Road" with the East. Mr. Da Silva thanked China for its support and expressed willingness to cooperate further. After the meeting, Mr. Geng presented the book series of "Belt and Road" stories - "Common Dream" to Mr. Da Silva.
