html: nan
title: 六部门关于开展2023年绿色建材下乡活动的通知
resulting_text: 工业和信息化部办公厅 住房和城乡建设部办公厅 农业农村部办公厅 商务部办公厅 国家市场监督管理总局办公厅 国家乡村振兴局综合司 关于开展2023年绿色建材下乡活动的通知 工信厅联原函 ﹝2023﹞ 50号 各省、自治区、直辖市及计划单列市、新疆生产建设兵团工业和信息化主管部门、住房和城乡建设厅（委、局）、农业农村（农牧）厅（局、委）、商务主管部门、市场监管局（厅、委）、乡村振兴局，各有关单位： 为深入贯彻党的二十大关于建设现代化产业体系、全面推进乡村振兴的决策部署，加快绿色建材生产、认证和推广应用，促进绿色消费，助力美丽乡村建设，推动乡村产业振兴，工业和信息化部、住房和城乡建设部、农业农村部、商务部、国家市场监督管理总局、国家乡村振兴局决定在2022年试点工作基础上，进一步深入推进，联合开展2023年绿色建材下乡活动。有关事项通知如下： 一、活动主题 绿色建材进万家 美好生活共创建 二、活动时间 2023年1月—2023年12月 三、试点地区 按照部门指导、市场主导、试点先行原则，在2022年已批复第一批试点地区的基础上，根据不同区域发展需求和实际，再选择第二批5个左右试点地区开展活动，有意愿的地区可依据本通知要求形成工作方案，向指导部门提出申请。 四、组织形式 （一）参与活动的产品原则上应为获得绿色建材认证的产品，具体获证产品清单和企业名录由绿色建材产品认证技术委员会另行发布，供试点地区参考。试点地区可结合实际制定本地清单名录，对于未获得绿色建材产品认证的产品，试点地区应明确产品技术要求，确保产品符合要求。对于符合认证条件的产品，各地区应加快开展认证活动。 （二）试点地区召开活动启动会后，下沉市、区（县）、乡（镇）、村，通过举办公益宣讲、专场、巡展等不同形式的线上线下活动，加快节能低碳、安全性好、性价比高的绿色建材推广应用。已批复的7个试点地区，在充分总结活动经验基础上，积极探索活动新模式，继续深入开展2023年绿色建材下乡活动，发挥引领示范作用。 （三）试点地区引导绿色建材生产企业、电商平台、卖场商场等积极参与活动。有条件的地区应对绿色建材消费予以适当补贴或贷款贴息。针对农房、基建等不同应用领域，发挥绿色建造解决方案典型示范作用，提供系统化解决方案，方便消费者选材。活动做好消费维权工作，明确消费维权投诉方式，为消费者提供咨询投诉维权服务。 （四）试点地区选择具有建材产业基础和区位优势的县域、乡镇等，发挥“链主”企业带动作用，促进绿色建材产业链上下游、大中小企业发展，推动绿色建材生产、认证、流通、应用、服务全产业链发展，打造特色产业集群。支持企业针对农村市场开发贴近施工、应用的绿色建材产品和整体解决方案。 （五）由中国建筑材料联合会、绿色建材产品认证技术委员会牵头，组织相关单位成立活动推进组，会同试点地区开展下乡活动。充分发挥第三方作用，完善公共平台，加强行业自律，做好上下游对接，协调组织企业等积极参与，鼓励企业、电商、卖场等让利于民。 （六）试点地区做好活动总结，11月底前将总结报告分别报送工业和信息化部、住房和城乡建设部、农业农村部、商务部、国家市场监督管理总局、国家乡村振兴局。 五、活动要求 （一）明确部门职责。试点地区有关部门加强配合、形成政策合力。工业和信息化主管部门要开展原材料工业“三品”行动，推动绿色建材产品品种增加，产品品质提升，树立绿色建材品牌影响力。住房和城乡建设主管部门要结合现代宜居农房建设和农房节能改造，开展绿色建材下乡活动，推广新型建造方式，推动绿色建材应用。商务主管部门要鼓励电商平台、线下卖场开设销售专区，加大推介力度，促进绿色消费。市场监管部门要督促相关认证机构依法依规开展绿色建材产品认证活动，严格查处认证违法违规行为。农业农村主管部门要强化绿色建材下乡活动与乡村基础设施建设、农村厕所革命等工作的统筹协调。乡村振兴主管部门要充分调动广大农民群众参与绿色建材下乡活动的积极性，引导树立绿色消费理念，倡导乡村建设项目推广应用绿色建材。 （二）做好安全保障。试点地区制定活动方案、安全方案等，细化措施、责任到人、落实到位，严防事故发生。 （三）注重舆论引导。运用新闻媒体、微博微信、广播电视等渠道，加大绿色建材科普宣传力度，加强活动全过程全覆盖宣传引导，为绿色建材推广应用营造良好舆论环境。 六、联系方式 工业和信息化部（原材料工业司）：010-68205576/5596 中国建筑材料联合会：010-57811075 绿色建材产品认证技术委员会：010-62252317 工业和信息化部办公厅      住房和城乡建设部办公厅 农业农村部办公厅             商务部办公厅 国家市场监督管理总局办公厅    国家乡村振兴局综合司 （代章） 2023年3月9日
input_url: 20230323084825/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkgztz/202303/20230303396827.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230320180429/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkgztz/202303/20230303396827.shtml
date: 2023-03-23 00:00:00
translated_title: Six departments on the green building materials to the countryside activities in 2023
translated_content: General Office of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology General Office of the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development General Office of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development General Office of the Ministry of Commerce General Office of the State Market Supervision and Administration General Office of the National Rural Revitalization Bureau Comprehensive Department Notice on the Green Building Materials to the Countryside in 2023 Industry and Information Technology Department Liaison Original Letter ﹝2023﹞ No. 50 The competent departments of industry and information technology in provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the central government and cities under the central government plan, Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps, Housing and Urban-Rural Construction Department (Committee, Bureau), Agriculture and Rural (Agriculture and Animal Husbandry) Department (Bureau, Committee), Commerce Department, Market Supervision Bureau (Department, Committee), Rural Revitalization Bureau, the relevant units: In order to thoroughly implement the decision-making and deployment of the Twentieth National Congress of the CPC on the construction of a modernized industrial system and comprehensively promote the revitalization of the countryside, to accelerate the production, certification and popularization of the application of green building materials, to promote green consumption, to assist in the construction of a beautiful countryside, and to promote the revitalization of rural industries, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology has issued a circular on the activities of the countryside activities. Rural industrial revitalization, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, the Ministry of Commerce, the State Administration for Market Supervision and Administration, the National Rural Revitalization Bureau decided to further promote the work on the basis of the pilot work in 2022, and jointly carry out the green building materials to the countryside activities in 2023. The relevant matters are notified as follows: First, the theme of the activity Green building materials into ten thousand homes and create a better life together Second, the time of the activity January 2023-December 2023 Third, the pilot areas In accordance with the principles of sector guidance, market-led, pilot first, on the basis of the first batch of pilot areas that have already been approved in 2022, and in accordance with the needs of the development of different regions and the actual situation, the second 5 or so pilot areas are selected to carry out the activity, and there are some pilot areas that have a good chance of success. On the basis of the first batch of pilot regions approved in 2022, a second batch of 5 or so pilot regions will be selected to carry out activities according to the development needs and actualities of different regions. Fourth, the form of organization (a) the products involved in the activities should be certified as green building materials in principle, the specific list of certified products and enterprise directory by the Green Building Materials Product Certification Technical Committee issued separately for reference by the pilot regions. Pilot areas can be combined with the actual development of the local list of directories, for products that have not been certified as green building materials products, pilot areas should be clear product technical requirements to ensure that the product meets the requirements. For products that meet the certification requirements, the regions should accelerate the certification activities. (ii) After the pilot regions hold the kick-off meeting for the activities, they will sink into the cities, districts (counties), townships (towns) and villages, and accelerate the promotion and application of energy-saving, low-carbon, safe and cost-effective green building materials by organizing different forms of on-line and off-line activities, such as public service lectures, special shows and roving exhibitions. The seven pilot regions that have been approved, on the basis of fully summarizing the experience of the activities, actively explore new modes of activities, continue to carry out in-depth 2023 green building materials to the countryside activities, and play a leading role in demonstration. (C) The pilot regions guide green building materials production enterprises, e-commerce platforms, stores and malls to actively participate in the activities. Conditional areas should be green building materials consumption to be appropriate subsidies or loan discounts. For farm buildings, infrastructure and other different application areas, play a typical example of green building solutions, to provide systematic solutions to facilitate consumer selection. Activities to do a good job of consumer rights, clear consumer rights complaints, to provide consumers with counseling complaints and rights services. (D) pilot areas to choose the building materials industry foundation and location advantages of the county, townships, etc., to play the "chain master" enterprise driving role, to promote the green building materials industry chain upstream and downstream, large and medium-sized enterprises, and to promote the production of green building materials, certification, circulation, application, service industry chain development, to create a special industrial clusters. Support enterprises to develop green building materials products and overall solutions for the rural market that are close to construction and application. (e) Led by the China Building Materials Federation and the Green Building Materials Product Certification Technical Committee, organize relevant units to set up an activity promotion group to carry out rural activities in conjunction with the pilot areas. Give full play to the role of the third party, improve the public platform, strengthen industry self-discipline, do a good job of upstream and downstream docking, coordination and organization of enterprises and other active participation, and encourage enterprises, e-commerce, stores and other concessions to the people. (F) Pilot areas to do a good job of summarizing the activities, before the end of November, the summary report were submitted to the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, the Ministry of Commerce, the State Administration of Market Supervision and Administration, the National Rural Revitalization Bureau. V. Activity requirements (a) clear departmental responsibilities. Relevant departments in the pilot area to strengthen cooperation and form policy synergies. The competent departments of industry and information technology to carry out the raw materials industry, "three products" action to promote the green building materials to increase the variety of products, product quality improvement, to establish the influence of green building materials brand. The departments in charge of housing and urban-rural construction should combine the construction of modern livable farm houses and the energy-saving transformation of farm houses, carry out green building materials activities in the countryside, promote new construction methods, and promote the application of green building materials. The department in charge of commerce should encourage e-commerce platforms and offline stores to open sales zones, increase the promotion efforts and promote green consumption. Market supervision departments should supervise relevant certification bodies to carry out green building materials product certification activities in accordance with the law, and strictly investigate and deal with certification violations. The departments in charge of agriculture and rural areas should strengthen the coordination of green building materials activities in rural areas with the construction of rural infrastructure and the rural toilet revolution. Rural revitalization departments should fully mobilize the majority of farmers to participate in green building materials to the countryside activities, guide the establishment of green consumption concepts, and advocate the promotion and application of green building materials in rural construction projects. (ii) Do a good job of safety and security. Pilot areas to develop activity programs, safety programs, etc., detailed measures, responsibilities, in place, to prevent accidents. (C) focus on public opinion guidance. The use of news media, microblogging, microblogging, radio and television channels, increase the popularization of green building materials science and publicity efforts to strengthen the activities of the whole process of full-coverage publicity and guidance for the promotion and application of green building materials to create a favorable public opinion environment. Contact Information Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (Department of Raw Materials Industry): 010-68205576/5596 China Building Materials Federation: 010-57811075 Green Building Materials Product Certification Technical Committee: 010-62252317 General Office of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology General Office of the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development General Office of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs General Office of the Ministry of Commerce General Office of the State Market Supervision and Administration Bureau General Office of the General Administration of the State Administration of Rural Revitalization Comprehensive Department (Substitute Chapter) March 9, 2023
english_summary: The Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, along with several other ministries and agencies, have jointly issued a circular to promote the use of green building materials in rural areas. The activities will be held from January 2023 to December 2023, with 5 or so pilot areas selected to carry out the activities based on the needs of the development of different regions. The specific list of certified products and enterprise directory will be issued separately by the Green Building Materials Product Certification Technical Committee. The activities will be organized through various forms of online and offline events, such as public service lectures, special shows, and roving exhibitions. The rural industrial revitalization will be promoted to accelerate the production, certification, and popularization of the application of green building materials, promote green consumption, assist in the construction of a beautiful countryside, and promote the revitalization of rural industries.
