html: nan
title: 商务部办公厅关于组织开展“家居焕新消费季”活动的通知
resulting_text: 各省、自治区、直辖市及计划单列市、新疆生产建设兵团商务主管部门: 为深入贯彻落实党中央、国务院决策部署，推动《商务部等13部门关于促进家居消费若干措施的通知》落实落细，激发家居行业市场活力，释放家居消费潜力，商务部将组织开展“家居焕新消费季”活动。现将有关事项通知如下: 一、总体安排 根据“2023消费提振年”总体安排，于2023年9—12月在全国范围内组织开展“家居焕新消费季”活动。广泛动员行业协会、家居卖场、家居产品和家装企业、电商平台、金融机构、新闻媒体等各方积极参与，统筹城乡，线上线下联动，丰富家居消费场景，提升家居消费供给，营造浓厚消费氛围。“家居焕新消费季”启动仪式将于9月初举办，同时支持各地组织N场地方站活动。 二、活动重点 （一）突出“大家居”和场景创新。 覆盖家电、家具、家纺、家装等家居行业全领域，举办购物节、嘉年华、下乡展销、电商直播节、家居设计大赛、装修技能大赛等各类活动，推出切实优惠措施和优质放心服务，满足城乡居民多元化、多层次消费需求。 （二）聚焦绿色智能适老等领域。 鼓励各地组织开展绿色、智能和适老家居消费主题活动。支持家居卖场、电商平台设立老年用品销售专区专柜，设置智能家居体验馆、品质家居生活馆等体验式消费场景，打造旧房装修和局部改造样板间，推出价格实惠的产品和服务套餐，满足多样化消费需求。 （三）发挥家居特色产地优势。 结合本地产业特色，举办陶瓷、卫浴、门窗、地板、照明、管材等专题活动，集聚产业链上下游资源，促进产供销对接，以优势产品为抓手，立足本地、辐射周边，带动局部改造、全屋装修等消费。 （四）强化展会引领带动作用。 支持以市场化方式举办家居类专业展会，展示家居领域前沿技术和产品，扩大优质家居产品供给，配套举办促消费活动，打造“逛展会、买家居、享体验、品美食”等商旅文体融合消费场景。 三、有关要求 （一）加强组织领导。 各地要高度重视，深刻认识抓好家居消费对恢复和扩大消费、满足人民美好生活需要的重要意义，在“2023消费提振年”总体活动框架下,与全年其他促消费活动做好统筹衔接，立足本地产业特色、消费热点和增长潜力点，精心策划组织本地“家居焕新消费季”活动，项目化清单化推动各项任务逐项落实。同时，要加强活动安全管理，制定安全工作方案和应急预案，压实各方责任，加强监督检查，确保各类活动安全有序。 （二）强化政策支持。 各地要结合居家适老化改造、城镇老旧小区改造、一刻钟便民生活圈等现有政策和资金支持，鼓励有条件的地区因地制宜出台针对性举措，支持城乡居民更换或新购家居产品、开展旧房装修。 （三）加大活动宣传。 各地要充分利用电视、广播、报纸、网络及各类新媒体平台，多渠道全方位开展宣传报道，发布活动安排和相关政策，引导绿色、健康、智能、适老等消费理念，倡导诚信兴商规范经营，营造放心、舒心、暖心的消费环境。 （四）做好成效总结。 各地要持续跟踪活动开展情况，总结活动经验做法和企业创新实践案例，并及时报送商务部。加强与统计部门沟通协调，发挥行业协会、金融机构等作用，定期掌握活动数量及参与企业、品牌数量,结合支付机构交易数据、重点家居企业销售数据、家具建材家电等品类社零数据等，多维度反映活动成效。 请各地于9月15日前报送本地拟开展的重点活动和重点参与企业（详见附件），我们将择优纳入“家居焕新消费季”重点活动名录。有意向组织开展“家居焕新消费季”地方站活动的地方，请及时联系商务部。 联系人:消费促进司 崔文嘉、宋松 电话:010-85093829/3830 邮 箱:cuiwenjia@mofcom.gov.cn 附件：家居焕新消费季重点活动表.wps 商务部办公厅 2023年8月31日 商务部办公厅关于组织开展“家居焕新消费季”活动的通知.pdf
input_url: 20230907034252/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkgztz/202309/20230903437239.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230921150605/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkgztz/202309/20230903437239.shtml
date: 2023-09-07 00:00:00
translated_title: The General Office of the Ministry of Commerce on the organization of the "Home Renewal Consumption Season" activities notice
translated_content: Provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the Central Government and municipalities with separate plans, Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps, the competent departments of commerce: In order to thoroughly implement the CPC Central Committee, the State Council decision-making and deployment, and promote the "Ministry of Commerce and other 13 departments on the promotion of household consumption of a number of measures to implement the details of the notice" to stimulate the home furnishings industry market vitality, to release the home furnishings consumption potential, the Ministry of Commerce will be organized to carry out the "home furnishings new consumer season" activities. Season" activities. Hereby notify the relevant matters as follows: I. General Arrangement According to the overall arrangement of "2023 Consumption Boosting Year", the Ministry of Commerce will organize and carry out the "Home Renewal Consumption Season" activities from September to December 2023 nationwide. Widely mobilize industry associations, home furnishing stores, home furnishing products and home decoration enterprises, e-commerce platforms, financial institutions, news media and other parties to actively participate in the integration of urban and rural areas, online and offline linkage, to enrich the home furnishing consumption scene, enhance the home furnishing consumption supply, and to create a strong consumer atmosphere. "Home Renewal Consumption Season" kick-off ceremony will be held in early September, while supporting local organizations around the N local station activities. Second, the focus of the activities (a) highlight the "big home" and scene innovation. Covering home appliances, furniture, home textiles, home furnishings and other home furnishings industry, shopping festival, carnival, countryside sales, e-commerce live festival, home furnishing design competition, decoration skills competition and other types of activities, the introduction of practical preferential measures and quality assured service, to meet the urban and rural residents of the diversified, multi-level consumer demand. (ii) Focusing on green, intelligent and age-friendly areas. Encourage local organizations to carry out green, intelligent and elderly home consumption theme activities. Support home furnishing stores, e-commerce platforms to set up a special area for the sale of elderly products counters, set up a smart home experience museum, quality of home life museum and other experiential consumption scenes, to create a model room for the old house renovation and local remodeling, the introduction of affordable products and services packages, to meet the diversified consumer demand. (C) play home features origin advantages. Combined with the characteristics of local industry, held ceramics, sanitary ware, doors and windows, flooring, lighting, tubes and other thematic activities, gathering resources from upstream and downstream of the industrial chain, promoting the docking of production, supply and marketing, with the advantage of the product, based on the local, radiate the surrounding area, drive the consumption of local remodeling, whole-house renovation. (d) Strengthen the leading role of exhibitions. Support the market-oriented way to hold professional home furnishing exhibitions, display cutting-edge technology and products in the home furnishing field, expand the supply of high-quality home furnishing products, hold consumption promotion activities, and create a business, tourism, culture and sports integration consumption scenario, such as "shopping exhibitions, home furnishing, enjoying the experience, and savoring the food". Third, the relevant requirements (a) strengthen organizational leadership. Each place should attach great importance to a deep understanding of the importance of home consumption to restore and expand consumption, to meet the people's needs for a better life, in the "2023 consumption to boost the year" under the framework of the overall activities, and other consumer promotion activities throughout the year to do a good job of coordination and convergence, based on the characteristics of the local industry, hot spots of consumption and growth potential points, carefully planned and organized Local "Home Renewal Consumption Season" activities, project-based list to promote the implementation of the tasks one by one. At the same time, we should strengthen the safety management of activities, develop safety programs and emergency plans, strengthen the responsibility of all parties, strengthen supervision and inspection to ensure that all kinds of activities are safe and orderly. (ii) Strengthen policy support. Localities should be combined with the ageing of the home renovation, transformation of old urban neighborhoods, a quarter of an hour convenient living area and other existing policies and financial support, and encourage the conditions of the region to introduce targeted initiatives to support urban and rural residents to replace or newly purchased home products, carry out the renovation of the old house. (C) increase the activities of publicity. Localities should make full use of television, radio, newspapers, networks and various new media platforms, multi-channel and all-round publicity and reporting, the release of the activities of the arrangements and related policies, to guide the green, healthy, intelligent, old and other consumer concepts, and advocate honesty and standardization of business operations, to create peace of mind, comfort and warmth of the consumer environment. (D) Do a good job summarizing the results. Each region should continue to track the development of activities, summarize the experience and practices of activities and business innovation and practice cases, and timely report to the Ministry of Commerce. Strengthen communication and coordination with the statistics department, play the role of industry associations, financial institutions, etc., regularly grasp the number of activities and the number of participating enterprises and brands, combined with the transaction data of payment institutions, sales data of key household enterprises, furniture, building materials, home appliances and other categories of social zero data, etc., to reflect the effectiveness of the activities in multiple dimensions. Please report the key activities to be carried out locally and the key participating enterprises by September 15 (see the attachment for details), and we will select the best ones to be included in the list of key activities for the "Home Renewal Consumption Season". If you are interested in organizing and carrying out the local activities of "Home Renewal Consumption Season", please contact the Ministry of Commerce in a timely manner. Contact Person: Department of Consumption Promotion Cui Wenjia, Song Song Tel: 010-85093829/3830 Email: 箱:cuiwenjia@mofcom.gov.cn Annex: List of Key Activities for Home Renewal Consumption Season.wps General Office of the Ministry of Commerce August 31, 2023 Notice of the General Office of the Ministry of Commerce on the Organization of the Home Renewal Consumption Season. Notice on Organizing and Carrying Out the "Home Renewal Consumption Season" Activities.pdf
english_summary: The Ministry of Commerce will organize and carry out the "Home Renewal Consumption Season" activities from September to December 2023. The focus of the activities will be on covering the home furnishings industry, including shopping festivals, carnivals, countryside sales, e-commerce live festivals, home furnishing design competitions, and decoration skills competitions. The activities aim to stimulate the home furnishings industry market vitality, release home furnishings consumption potential, and create a strong consumer atmosphere. Each place should attach great importance to the importance of home consumption to restore and expand consumption, meet people's needs for a better life, and carefully plan and organize local "Home Renewal Consumption Season" activities.
