html: nan
title: 商务部办公厅关于组织开展2024年“老字号嘉年华”活动的通知
resulting_text: 各省、自治区、直辖市及计划单列市、新疆生产建设兵团商务主管部门，各有关部门： 为贯彻落实商务部等8部门《关于促进老字号创新发展的意见》，推动老字号守正创新发展，大力发展国货“潮品”等新的消费增长点，根据“消费促进年”统一安排，商务部将组织开展2024年“老字号嘉年华”活动。现将有关事项通知如下： 一、总体安排 全面贯彻党的二十大和二十届二中全会精神，落实中央经济工作会议部署，将老字号作为促进国货“潮品”消费的重要切入点，充分调动地方商务主管部门、专业机构、新闻媒体、电商平台、专家学者、企业商户等各方面力量，围绕“ 国货经典 潮品焕新 ”组织开展展会推介、街区嗨购、平台上新、创新赋能、交流集聚、国潮出海等系列活动，着力推动消费从疫后恢复转向持续扩大。 二、主要内容 （一）组织展览展示，加强宣传推广。 充分发挥进博会、消博会、服贸会、数贸会等大型展会作用，组织老字号积极参展、集中亮相。结合传统节日和民俗活动，以特色饮食、工艺美术、传统医药等领域为重点组织开展老字号展示展销，打造互动式、沉浸式体验场景，搭建国货“潮品”综合展示平台。 （二）依托城乡网点，丰富消费场景 。 结合城市商业发展和县域商业建设相关工作，组织开展嗨逛步行街、一刻钟便民生活节、“游购乡村·欢乐大集”等主题活动。持续推进“老字号中华行”活动，推动老字号在相关街区、社区、景区集中入驻，提升国货“潮品”与历史文化资源融合联动水平。 （三）联动网络平台，拓展销售渠道 。 支持电商平台和新媒体平台打造老字号专题，组织知名专家、网络达人前往老字号“探店直播”“种草打卡”，推出美食节、消费季等特色活动，以年轻人喜闻乐见的方式持续加大线上推广力度，推动国货“潮品”开拓消费群体，拓展线上渠道。 （四） 强化 协同创新，助力提质升级 。 聚焦数字转型、品牌建设、产业投资等方面，组织老字号协同创新中心推出普惠性服务项目，支持金融机构推出老字号专属服务方案，推动老字号开发更多文化创意产品，“量体裁衣”赋能企业创新发展，促进国货“潮品”提质升级。 （五）组织业内 交流 ，促进集群发展 。 组织相关专业机构持续举办“老字号大讲堂”专题讲座，支持各地聚焦相关专题或领域举办沙龙论坛、掌门人轮训、创新发展大会等形式多样的交流对接活动，加强典型经验推广。鼓励各地组织代表性老字号企业牵头、带动相关企业共同参与，打造品牌集群，支持国货“潮品”集聚发展。 （六）推动 出海 发展，弘扬传统文化 。 支持各地和相关行业协会结合境外重点活动安排，组织老字号跨境展示展销、举办交流活动，传播弘扬中华优秀传统文化。鼓励老字号运用跨境电商开拓国际市场，探索与海外知名品牌开展深度合作，带动国货“潮品”走出国门。 三、工作要求 （一）精心组织策划。 商务部组织有关方面确定了一批跨区域、全国性的重点活动（附件1），各地可结合工作实际组织老字号企业自愿参与，避免增加企业负担。要结合本地实际和促消费工作总体安排，因地制宜举办商品展销、技艺展示、文化体验等特色活动，着力畅通国货“潮品”流通渠道，营造便利消费环境。 （ 二 ）加强宣传推广。 商务部将联合中央媒体加强宣传策划，聚焦重点活动持续开展推广报道，营造良好氛围。各地要发挥好当地媒体作用，充分调动相关新媒体平台积极性，突出地域特色和活动特点加大宣传推广力度，着力提升相关活动影响。 （三）确保安全有序。 各地和相关活动组织方要认真落实各项安全生产措施，切实做好反食品浪费工作，确保活动稳妥有序开展。在相关活动中可按要求统一使用“老字号嘉年华”标识（附件2），不得滥用乱用。 （四）及时做好总结。 各地和相关活动组织方要及时提炼活动亮点，认真总结活动成效，其中重点活动组织方要于活动结束后10个工作日内向商务部报送总结（相关表格见附件3），各地要于每季度结束后10个工作日内向商务部报送工作情况（相关表格见附件4）。 联系人：流通发展司 王义涵 张晟瑄 电  话：010-85093776 85093774 传  真：010-85093795 邮  箱：ltchengshi@mofcom.gov.cn 附件: 1. “老字号嘉年华”主题活动表 2. “老字号嘉年华”标识使用要求 3. “老字号嘉年华”活动总结表 4. “老字号嘉年华”工作情况表 商务部办公厅 2024年1月9日
input_url: 20240119234321/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkgztz/202401/20240103467098.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20240117172843/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkgztz/202401/20240103467098.shtml
date: 2024-01-20 00:00:00
translated_title: Circular of the General Office of the Ministry of Commerce on the Organization of the 2024 "Carnival of Old Brand" Activities
translated_content: Provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the central government and municipalities with separate plans, Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps, the competent departments in charge of commerce, and all relevant departments According to the unified arrangement of "Year of Consumption Promotion", the Ministry of Commerce will organize and carry out the activity of "Carnival of Old Brand" in 2024. The relevant matters are notified as follows: I. General Arrangements Comprehensively implement the spirit of the Twentieth National Congress of the CPC and the Second Plenary Session of the Twentieth Central Committee, implement the deployment of the Central Economic Work Conference, take the old as an important entry point to promote the consumption of national products, fully mobilizing the local business authorities, professional organizations, news media, e-commerce platforms, experts and scholars, Fully mobilize local business authorities, news media, e-commerce platforms, experts and scholars, enterprises and merchants, and organize a series of activities such as exhibition promotion, neighborhood shopping, platforms, innovation and empowerment, exchanges and gatherings, and national tides going to the sea, etc., and make efforts to promote the consumption from post-epidemic restoration to sustained expansion. (a) Organize exhibitions and displays, and strengthen publicity and promotion. Give full play to the role of large-scale exhibitions such as the Fair, Consumer Fair, Trade in Clothing Fair, Digital Trade Fair, etc., and organize the old and famous companies to actively participate in the exhibition and make a concentrated appearance. In conjunction with traditional festivals and folk activities, it organizes exhibitions and sales of old brands focusing on special diets, arts and crafts, traditional medicine, etc., creates interactive and immersive experience scenes, and establishes a comprehensive platform for displaying "trendy products" of national products. (ii) Relying on urban and rural outlets to enrich consumption scenes. Combined with the urban business development and county business construction related work, organizing and carrying out the Hi stroll pedestrian street, quarter-hour convenience life festival, "shopping in the countryside - happy set" and other thematic activities. Continuously promote the "old Chinese" activities, promote the old in the relevant neighborhoods, communities, scenic spots concentrated in, and enhance the level of integration and linkage of national "fashionable products" and historical and cultural resources. (C) linkage of network platforms to expand sales channels. Support e-commerce platforms and new media platforms to create old specialties, organize well-known experts, network professionals to go to the old "store visits live" "grass card", launch food festivals, consumption season and other special activities, in a way that is pleasing to young people to continue to increase the online We will continue to increase online promotion efforts in a way that is popular among young people, and promote the development of national "trendy products" to develop consumer groups and expand online channels. (iv) Strengthening collaborative innovation to help improve quality and upgrade. Focusing on digital transformation, brand building, industrial investment and other aspects, we will organize the Collaborative Innovation Center of Old Firms to launch inclusive service projects, support financial institutions to launch exclusive service programs for Old Firms, and promote the development of more cultural and creative products for Old Firms, so as to "tailor-make" and empower enterprises to innovate and develop, and to promote "trendy products" made of national products. (v) Organize industry exchanges to promote the development of "trendy" products. (v) Organize industry exchanges to promote cluster development. Organize relevant professional institutions to hold "Lecture Hall for Old Firms" lectures on a continuous basis, and support localities to focus on relevant topics or fields to hold various forms of exchange and docking activities, such as salon forums, training for managers, and conferences on innovation and development, so as to strengthen the promotion of typical experiences. Encourage local organizations to organize representative old enterprises to take the lead, drive the participation of related enterprises to create brand clusters, and support the development of national "trendy products" cluster. (VI) Promoting overseas development and promoting traditional culture. Support localities and relevant industry associations to organize cross-border exhibitions and sales of old brands and exchange activities to spread and promote the excellent traditional Chinese culture in conjunction with the arrangement of key activities outside China. Encourage the use of cross-border e-commerce to develop the international market, explore in-depth cooperation with overseas famous brands, and drive the "tide" of national products out of the country. Third, the work requirements (a) carefully organized planning. The Ministry of Commerce organized the relevant parties to determine a number of cross-regional, national key activities (Annex 1), around the work of the actual organization of old enterprises to participate voluntarily, to avoid increasing the burden on enterprises. To combine the local reality and the overall arrangements for promoting consumption, according to local conditions to organize exhibitions and sales of goods, skills demonstration, cultural experience and other characteristics of the activities, efforts to smooth the flow of national goods "tide" channels, to create a convenient environment for consumption. (ii) Strengthen publicity and promotion. The Ministry of Commerce will join hands with the central media to strengthen publicity and planning, focus on key activities and continue to carry out promotional reports to create a favorable atmosphere. Localities should play a good role in local media, fully mobilize the enthusiasm of the relevant new media platforms, highlighting the regional characteristics and activities to increase publicity and promotion, and strive to enhance the impact of related activities. (C) to ensure safety and order. Localities and related activities organizers should conscientiously implement various safety measures, and effectively do a good job of anti-food waste, to ensure that the activities are carried out in a stable and orderly manner. In the relevant activities can be in accordance with the requirements of the unified use of the "Carnival of Old" logo (Annex 2), shall not be abused indiscriminately. (d) Summarize in a timely manner. Localities and relevant activity organizers should refine the highlights of the activities in a timely manner, and seriously summarize the effectiveness of the activities, in which the key activity organizers should submit a summary to the Ministry of Commerce within 10 working days after the end of the activity (see Annex 3 for the relevant form), and the localities should submit their work to the Ministry of Commerce within 10 working days after the end of each quarter (see Annex 4 for the relevant form). Contact Person: Circulation Development Department Wang Yihan Zhang Shengxuan Tel: 010-85093776 85093774 Fax: 010-85093795 E-mail: ltchengshi@mofcom.gov.cn Annexes: 1. Theme Activity Table of "Carnival of Old Firms" 2. Requirements for the use of the logo of "Carnival of Old Firms" 3. Summary table of the activities of "Carnival of Old Firms" 4. Status table of the work of "Carnival of Old Firms" General Office of the Ministry of Commerce January 9, 2024 January 9, 2024
english_summary: The Ministry of Commerce in China will organize the "Carnival of Old Brand" activity in 2024 to promote the consumption of national products. The activity will focus on the old as a key entry point and will include exhibitions, promotional events, online sales channels, and industry exchanges. The specific arrangements and requirements for the activity are outlined in the circulated document.
