html: nan
title: 商务部等5部门办公厅（室）关于开展中华老字号示范创建工作的通知
resulting_text: 各省、自治区、直辖市及计划单列市商务、文化和旅游、市场监管、文物、知识产权主管部门： 为推动老字号守正创新发展，充分发挥老字号在商贸流通、消费促进、质量管理、技术创新、品牌建设、文化传承等方面的示范引领作用，根据《中华老字号示范创建管理办法》（以下简称《办法》），商务部、文化和旅游部、市场监管总局、文物局、知识产权局决定联合开展中华老字号示范创建工作， 对已有中华老字号进行复核，开展新一批中华老字号认定，建立“有进有出”的动态管理机制， 现将有关事项通知如下： 一、开展已有中华老字号复核 商务部认定的第一批、第二批 “ 中华老字号 ” 企业 须 按照《办法》规定参加复核 。 各地 商务主管部门 要 组织 企业通过商务部中华老字号信息管理系统（以下简称管理系统，网址 https://zhlzh.mofcom.gov.cn ）填写《“中华老字号”复核表》（附件 1 ）、上传相关材料，并 会同同级文化和旅游、市场监管、文物、知识产权主管部门（以下称相关部门）逐一核查 ，分门别类出具“通过”“ 附条件通过 ” “ 不通过 ” 复核建议 。 （一）核定企业 基本情况 。 对照 此前公布的 中华老字号名录，逐一核 定 企业 主体和 代表性注册商标 ， 同时根据企业填报的 企业性质、主营业务、所属 行业 等信息对代表性注册商标和相关商标信息进行逐项确认。对情况 发生变化 后已不符合中华老字号条件的企业，出具“不通过”复核建议。 （ 二 ） 审核 企业经营 情况 。 根据企业填报的近年经营情况 ，对经营状况不佳、业绩大幅下滑的，出具“附条件通过”复核建议，并及时加强督促指导，推动企业创新发展；对长期经营不善、连续出现亏损，在所属行业或领域内已不具有代表性、引领性和示范性的，出具“不通过”复核建议。 （ 三 ） 核查 企业依法合规情况。 根据国家企业信用信息公示系统、信用中国等政府信息 ，以及相关部门日常监管信息，对被相关部门列入经营异常名录或严重违法失信名单的、引起社会不良影响的， 出具“附条件通过”复核建议，并按照《办法》规定，及时采取约谈整改等相应管理措施； 对发生严重损害消费者权益、出现重大质量问题或安全事故、重复侵犯他人知识产权、严重扰乱市场秩序等情形已不符合中华老字号条件的，出具“不通过”复核建议。 各 地 商务主管部门 要于 2023 年 5 月 31 日前（以当地邮戳时间为准）， 将复核建议汇总表 （附件 2 ，须经过不少于 15 个工作日的社会公示）和企业提交的 相关材料 寄送商务部。 二、组织新一批中华老字号申报 各地 商务主管部门要会同相关部门，按照《办法》 相关 规定，对照《中华老字号示范创建评价指标》（附件 3 ）， 坚持“优中选优”原则， 深入挖掘遴选一批历史文化深厚、经营管理规范、创新发展能力突出的企业，向商务部推荐。 （一） 组织 企业申报。 各地商务主管部门要 会同 相关部门组织本行政区域内有意愿的 企业 填写 《 “ 中华老字号 ” 申报书》 （附件 4 ） ， 认真准备相关材料，向 住所地省级 商务主管部门申报 。 （二）择优 审核 推荐。 各地商务主管部门要 会同相关部门对企业申报材料进行审核，在可推荐数量上限（附件 5 ）内遴选企业并通过社会公示后，于 2023 年 6 月 3 0 日 前 （以当地邮戳为准） ， 将正式推荐函 、汇总表（附件 6 ） 和企业申报材料（一式五份）寄送商务部。 （三） 做好 信息 填报 。 商务部根据各地推荐名单，统一为相关企业注册管理系统账户。各地 商务主管部门 要指导企业及时 通过 管理系统填写申报信息，并于 2023 年 7 月 1 5 日前完成对企业申报信息的 线上 审核。 中央企业可通过其一级集团公司审定并经国务院授权履行出资人职责的主管单位择优遴选、书面同意后向商务部申报。 三、工作要求 （一）高度重视。 各 地 商务主管部门 要切实发挥好牵头作用，主动与 当地 文化和旅游、市场监管、文物、知识产权主管部门加强联动，调动当地老字号协会积极性，形成工作推进合力。要对照各项工作时间节点，明确任务分工，倒排时间计划，确保各项工作有序推进。 （ 二 ） 加强解读 。 各 地 要 积极组织 政府部门、 专家学者 、老字号协会 做好政策解读， 加大 工作 宣传力度，持续营造良好氛围 。要 密切关注社情民意，及时回应社会关切，妥善处理 企业、群众等有关方面 诉求。 （ 三 ）严格把关。 各 地 要充分认识中华老字号示范创建工作的科学性、严肃性，坚持公平公正、公开透明，严格做好材料审核和企业推荐工作。要尊重历史文化、遵循发展规律，对争议较大的问题 “ 一事一议 ” ，避免引起矛盾纠纷， 确保稳妥严密 。 （四） 强化 服务。 中华老字号示范创建坚持自愿参与原则，不收取任何费用 ， 此次申报无任何官方指定中介机构，建议企业自行申报。 各 地 要 深入实地调研，摸清企业情况，加强业务指导，积极协调解决企业遇到的困难和问题 。 相关范本、表格和工作指南可通过管理系统下载，工作中的有关问题请及时与商务部及相关部门联系。 联系方式： 商务 部 王义涵 010-850937 76 文化和旅游 部 张  晶 010-59882897 市场监管总 局 蔡煜刚 010- 82262033 文物 局 王  琳 010-56792302 知识产权 局 肖 聂尊 010-62086712 邮寄地址： 北京市东城区东长安街 2 号商务部流通发展司（邮编： 100731 ） 商务部办公厅 文化和旅游部办公厅 市场监管总局办公厅 文物局办公室 知识产权局办公室 2023 年 4 月 7 日 附件.pdf
input_url: 20230416054041/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkgztz/202304/20230403403771.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230423033708/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkgztz/202304/20230403403771.shtml
date: 2023-04-16 00:00:00
translated_title: Ministry of Commerce and other five departments of the General Office (Office) on the development of the Chinese old model creation work notice
translated_content: The competent departments of commerce, culture and tourism, market supervision, cultural relics and intellectual property rights of provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the central government and municipalities with plans to be listed on a separate line The Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the General Administration of Market Supervision, the Cultural Relics Bureau, and the Intellectual Property Office have decided to jointly carry out the demonstration and creation of China's long-established brands, review the existing China's long-established brands, and carry out the identification of a new batch of China's long-established brands, as well as to set up a dynamic management mechanism of "in and out", and the relevant matters are notified as below. The first and second batch of "China's old brands" recognized by the Ministry of Commerce shall participate in the review in accordance with the Measures. The competent departments of commerce in each region shall organize enterprises to fill in the "Review Form of Chinese Old Brand" (Annex 1) and upload relevant materials through the Information Management System of Chinese Old Brand of the Ministry of Commerce (hereinafter referred to as the management system at https://zhlzh.mofcom.gov.cn), and shall work together with culture and tourism, market supervision, cultural relics, intellectual property rights, and other relevant departments at the same level to ensure that the enterprises can participate in the review process. The authorities in charge of culture and tourism, market supervision, cultural relics and intellectual property rights (hereinafter referred to as the relevant departments) will verify each of them, and issue recommendations for "passing", "passing with conditions" and "failing to pass" the review in different categories. (i) Approved enterprises Basic situation. The main body of the enterprise and representative registered trademarks are verified one by one against the previously announced list of Chinese old characters, and the representative registered trademarks and related trademarks are confirmed one by one according to the information on the nature of the enterprise, its main business, and the industry to which it belongs, etc. The information on the representative registered trademarks and related trademarks is confirmed one by one. For enterprises that do not meet the conditions for Chinese Time-honored Firms due to changes in circumstances, a "no pass" review recommendation will be issued. (ii) Reviewing the operation of the enterprise. According to the business situation reported by the enterprise in recent years, if the business situation is not good and the performance has declined significantly, the company will issue a "pass with conditions" review recommendation, and promptly strengthen supervision and guidance to promote the innovative development of the enterprise; if the enterprise has been poorly operated for a long time, has suffered consecutive losses, and is no longer representative, leading and exemplary in the industry or field to which it belongs, the company will issue a "no pass" review recommendation. "(iii) Verification of the enterprise's compliance with laws and regulations. (iii) Verification of the enterprise's compliance with the law. According to government information such as the National Enterprise Credit Information Publicity System, Credit China and other government information, as well as the daily supervision information of relevant departments, if an enterprise is listed in the Business Abnormal Directory or the List of Serious Violations of Laws and Faithlessness by the relevant departments, or if it has caused adverse impacts on the society, it will issue a review recommendation of "passing with conditions", and take timely interviews and rectification measures, etc., in accordance with the provisions of the Measures. In case of serious damage to consumer rights and interests, major quality problems or safety accidents, repeated infringement of intellectual property rights of others, serious disruption of market order and other circumstances that do not meet the conditions of China's long-established brands, a "no pass" review recommendation will be issued. The local commerce departments shall send the summary table of review recommendations (Annex 2, subject to a public notice of not less than 15 working days) and relevant materials submitted by the enterprises to the Ministry of Commerce before May 31, 2023 (subject to the local postmark time). The competent departments in charge of commerce in each region shall work together with relevant departments to select a batch of enterprises with profound history and culture, standardized operation and management, and outstanding innovation and development ability, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Measures, in accordance with the "Evaluation Indicators for the Demonstration and Creation of China's Old Firms" (Appendix 3), and adhering to the principle of "selecting the best among the best". Enterprises, recommended to the Ministry of Commerce. (a) Organize the declaration of enterprises. Local business departments should work with relevant departments to organize willing enterprises in the administrative region to fill out the "Chinese old" declaration (Annex 4), carefully prepare the relevant materials, and submit the declaration to the provincial business department of the place of residence. (ii) Selection of the best audit recommendations. The competent business departments of the localities shall review the declaration materials of the enterprises together with the relevant departments, select the enterprises within the maximum number of recommendations (Annex 5) and pass the social publicity, and then send the official recommendation letter, the summary table (Annex 6) and the declaration materials of the enterprises (five copies) to the Ministry of Commerce by June 30, 2023 (postmarked by the local postmarks). (iii) Fill in the information properly. The Ministry of Commerce will register management system accounts for the relevant enterprises according to the recommendation list of each region. Local business departments should guide enterprises to fill in the declaration information through the management system in a timely manner, and July 15, 2023 before the completion of the online audit of the enterprise declaration information. Central enterprises may declare to the Ministry of Commerce through their group companies and the competent units authorized by the State Council to perform the responsibilities of the funder to select and agree in writing to the Ministry of Commerce. Third, the work requirements (a) attaches great importance to. Local business departments should play a good lead role, take the initiative with the local culture and tourism, market supervision, cultural relics, intellectual property rights authorities to strengthen the linkage, mobilize the local old associations enthusiasm, the formation of work to promote synergy. We should clarify the division of labor and schedule the time plan to ensure the orderly promotion of the work against the time nodes of the work. (ii) Strengthen interpretation. Each place should actively organize government departments, experts and scholars, old associations to do a good job of policy interpretation, to increase the work of publicity, and continue to create a good atmosphere. It is necessary to pay close attention to public opinion, respond to social concerns in a timely manner, and properly deal with the demands of enterprises, the public and other relevant parties. (iii) Strictly checking. Each place should fully understand the scientific and seriousness of the work of creating a demonstration of old Chinese brands, adhere to the fairness and impartiality, openness and transparency, and strictly do a good job in reviewing the materials and recommending the work of enterprises. To respect the history and culture, follow the laws of development, the more controversial issues "one thing at a time", to avoid causing conflicts and disputes, to ensure that the stability and rigor. (D) strengthening services. China's old demonstration of the creation of voluntary participation in the principle of not charging any fees, the declaration of no officially designated intermediary organizations, it is recommended that enterprises declare themselves. Each place should conduct in-depth field research to find out the situation of enterprises, strengthen business guidance, and actively coordinate and solve the difficulties and problems encountered by enterprises. Relevant models, forms and working guidelines can be downloaded through the management system. Please contact the Ministry of Commerce and relevant departments in time for any problems in the work. Contact Information: Ministry of Commerce Wang Yihan 010-850937 76 Ministry of Culture and Tourism Zhang Jing 010-59882897 General Administration of Market Supervision Cai Yugang 010- 82262033 Cultural Relics Bureau Wang Lin 010-56792302 Intellectual Property Office Xiao Niezun 010-62086712 Postal Address: Department of Circulation and Development of the Ministry of Commerce, No. 2 East Chang'an Street, Dongcheng District, Beijing (Postal Code: 100731): 100731) General Office of the Ministry of Commerce General Office of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism General Office of the General Administration of Market Supervision General Office of the Bureau of Cultural Heritage Office of the Bureau of Intellectual Property April 7, 2023 Annex.pdf
english_summary: The General Office of the Ministry of Commerce, along with several other ministries, has issued a notice to jointly carry out the demonstration and creation of China's old brands, review existing brands, and identify a new batch of Chinese old brands. The notice outlines the criteria for assessment and the process for review, which includes filling out a review form, submitting relevant materials, and ensuring compliance with laws and regulations. There will also be a dynamic management mechanism of "in and out," and local business departments will be responsible for organizing enterprises to fill out the "Chinese old" declaration. The competent departments in each region will review the declaration materials of the enterprises together with the relevant departments, select the enterprises, and pass the social publicity. The notice also outlines the work requirements, including emphasizing the importance of the work, strengthening interpretation, strictly checking the materials and work of enterprises, and strengthening services.
