html: nan
title: 赵锁成参赞出席2023年度东帝汶中资企业协会会员大会
resulting_text: 1月19日，东帝汶中资企业协会召开2023年度会员大会，驻东使馆经商参赞赵锁成同志出席会议并讲话。协会及会员单位相关负责人共计20余人参会。 赵锁成参赞首先代表使馆对协会过去一年开展的工作和取得的成绩予以肯定，对大会的成功举办表示祝贺。赵锁成参赞表示，在东中资企业要坚持以高质量党建为引领，推动党建工作和公司经营深度融合发展。坚持依法合规经营，遵守当地法律法规，尊重当地风俗习惯。积极履行社会责任，讲好中国故事，传播中国理念，为高质量共建“一带一路”、推动构建人类命运共同体贡献力量。坚持守正创新发展，制定和完善企业中长期发展规划，稳步开拓发展新赛道、新领域。统筹发展和安全，时刻绷紧安全生产这根弦，筑牢安全发展底线。
input_url: 20240123022628/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202401/20240103468017.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20240123053043/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202401/20240103468017.shtml
date: 2024-01-23 00:00:00
translated_title: Counselor Zhao attended the 2023 General Meeting of the Association of Chinese Enterprises in Timor-Leste (ACET).
translated_content: On January 19th, Timor-Leste Chinese Enterprises Association held the 2023 Annual General Meeting, and Comrade Zhao Lockcheng, Economic and Commercial Counselor of the Embassy in Timor-Leste, attended the meeting and delivered a speech. More than 20 people in charge of the Association and member organizations attended the meeting. On behalf of the Embassy, Mr. Zhao firstly affirmed the work and achievements of the Association in the past year and congratulated the success of the General Assembly. Counselor Zhao Lecheng said that Chinese enterprises in East China should adhere to the high-quality party building as the leader, and promote the deep integration of party building work and company operation. Insist on operating in compliance with the law, abide by local laws and regulations, and respect local customs and habits. They should actively fulfill their social responsibilities, tell Chinese stories, disseminate Chinese ideas, and contribute to the construction of the "Belt and Road" and the building of a community of human destiny. We will adhere to the principle of integrity and innovation, formulate and improve the medium- and long-term development plan of the enterprise, and steadily open up new tracks and new fields for development. Integrate development and safety, always tighten the string of production safety, and build a solid bottom line for safe development.
english_summary: On January 19th, the 2023 Annual General Meeting of the Association of Chinese Enterprises in Timor-Leste (ACET) was held, attended by more than 20 people in charge of the Association and member organizations. Counselor Zhao Lockcheng, Economic and Commercial Counselor of the Embassy in Timor-Leste, delivered a speech at the meeting. Counselor Zhao commended the work of the ACET in the past year and encouraged Chinese enterprises in East China to uphold high-quality party building, promote the deep integration of party building work and company operations, and adhere to operating in compliance with the law and respecting local customs and habits. They should also actively fulfill their social responsibilities, contribute to the construction of the "Belt and Road" and the building of a community of human destiny, adhere to the principle of integrity and innovation, formulate and improve the medium- and long-term development plan of the enterprise, and steadily open up new tracks and new fields for development while integrating development and safety, always tightening the string of production safety, and building a solid bottom line for safe development.
