html: nan
title: 商务部、中央台办、国家发展改革委、工业和信息化部联合印发《关于经贸领域支持福建探索海峡两岸融合发展新路若干措施的通知》
resulting_text: 为贯彻落实《中共中央 国务院关于支持福建探索海峡两岸融合发展新路 建设两岸融合发展示范区的意见》，支持福建发挥对台独特优势、进一步扩大对台先行示范效应，2024年1月8日，商务部、中央台办、国家发展改革委、工业和信息化部联合印发《关于经贸领域支持福建探索海峡两岸融合发展新路若干措施的通知》，从5个方面提出14项措施。 一是支持福建扩大对台开放合作。 推动福建自贸试验区对台先行先试，支持福建用好《区域全面经济伙伴关系协定》（RCEP）规则，支持福建加强对台招商引资。 二是支持福建对台贸易高质量发展。 提升福建对台贸易便利化水平，支持福建打造对台贸易枢纽，探索两岸服务贸易合作新业态。 三是深化闽台优势产业融合发展。 支持深化闽台产业融合，助力福建打造优势产业集群，支持福建对台合作平台建设。 四是助力在闽台企融入国内大循环。 推动福建内外贸一体化建设，支持在闽台企申报老字号，支持福建对台会展交流。 五是促进重点区域加快融合发展。 支持福建沿海地区密切与金门、马祖贸易往来，加强与金门、马祖合作开展园区建设。 若干措施将有助于进一步加强闽台经贸交流合作，深化两岸经贸融合发展，支持台商台企更好融入新发展格局。 附件： 经贸领域支持福建探索海峡两岸融合发展新路的若干措施.pdf
input_url: 20240111004056/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202401/20240103465291.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20240110074551/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202401/20240103465291.shtml
date: 2024-01-11 00:00:00
translated_title: The Ministry of Commerce, the Central Taiwan Affairs Office, the National Development and Reform Commission, and the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology jointly issued the Notice on Several Measures in the Field of Economy and Trade in Support of Fujian's Exploration of a New Path of Cross-Strait Integration and Development
translated_content: In order to implement the "Opinions of the CPC Central Committee and the State Council on Supporting Fujian to Explore New Road of Cross-Strait Integration and Development and Construct a Cross-Strait Integration and Development Demonstration Zone", and to support Fujian to give full play to its unique advantages over Taiwan and further expand the demonstration effect of being an early adopter of the Taiwan Strait, the Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM), Central Taiwan Affairs Office (CTAO), National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC), and Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT) have jointly issued a Notice of Several Measures on Supporting Fujian to Explore the New Road of Cross-Strait Integration and Development in the Field of Economy and Trade. Notice on Several Measures to Support Fujian in Exploring New Road of Cross-Strait Integration and Development in the Economic and Trade Field", which put forward 14 measures in five aspects. First, support Fujian to expand openness and cooperation with Taiwan. It will promote the early and pilot implementation of the Fujian Pilot Free Trade Zone in Taiwan, support Fujian to make good use of the rules of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (RCEP), and support Fujian to strengthen investment in Taiwan. Second, support the high-quality development of Fujian's trade with Taiwan. It will enhance the level of trade facilitation between Fujian and Taiwan, support Fujian to build a trade hub between Fujian and Taiwan, and explore new forms of cross-strait service trade cooperation. Third, deepen the integration and development of advantaged industries in Fujian and Taiwan. Support the deepening of industrial integration between Fujian and Taiwan, help Fujian build advantageous industrial clusters, and support the construction of cooperation platforms between Fujian and Taiwan. Fourth, help Taiwanese enterprises in Fujian integrate into the domestic cycle. It will promote the integration of domestic and foreign trade in Fujian, support the declaration of old brands by Taiwanese enterprises in Fujian, and support the exchange of exhibitions and conferences between Fujian and Taiwan. Fifth, promote the accelerated integration and development of key regions. It supports Fujian's coastal areas to closely engage in trade with Kinmen and Matsu, and strengthens cooperation with Kinmen and Matsu in the construction of parks. A number of measures will help further strengthen Fujian-Taiwan economic and trade exchanges and cooperation, deepen cross-strait economic and trade integration and development, and support Taiwan businesses and enterprises to better integrate into the new development pattern. Attachment: Several Measures in the Field of Economy and Trade to Support Fujian's Exploration of a New Path of Cross-Strait Integration and Development.pdf
english_summary: The Ministry of Commerce, Central Taiwan Affairs Office, National Development and Reform Commission, and Ministry of Industry and Information Technology issued a notice with 14 measures to support Fujian's exploration of a new path of cross-Strait integration and development in the economic and trade field. The measures aim to support Fujian's openness and cooperation with Taiwan, enhance trade facilitation between Fujian and Taiwan, deepen the integration and development of advantageous industries in Fujian and Taiwan, help Taiwanese enterprises integrate into the domestic cycle, and promote the integration and development of key regions. These measures aim to further strengthen Fujian-Taiwan economic and trade exchanges and cooperation, deepen cross-Strait economic and trade integration and development, and support Taiwan businesses and enterprises to better integrate into the new development pattern.
