html: nan
title: 康文参赞出席义乌—文莱商贸对接会并致辞
resulting_text: 3月4日，义乌—文莱商贸对接会在文莱举行，中国驻文莱使馆经商参赞康文、浙江省义乌市副市长葛巧棣、文莱—中国“一带一路”促进会陈嘉兴会长、中国银行（香港）文莱分行行长李峰出席并致辞。义乌市政府访文代表团一行、文莱“一带一路”促进会会员企业、文莱有关商协会和企业、中国驻文莱使馆经商处代表参加上述活动。 康文参赞表示，中文两国是隔海相望的近邻、相互信赖的朋友、共同发展的伙伴。尽管遭受疫情冲击，中文共建“一带一路”项目成效突出，带动双边贸易大幅增长，连续两年创历史新高，中国仍为文莱最大的外资来源地和前三大贸易伙伴，充分展现了两国经贸合作的韧性与活力。本次商贸对接会是新冠疫情暴发三年来首次由中国政府部门带领企业来到文莱举办的中国商品推介活动，显示中文两国成功抗击疫情后，继续深化经贸交流，携手加快疫后经济复苏的决心和信心。当前，中国加快构建新发展格局，坚持推进高水平对外开放，推动共建“一带一路”高质量发展，以及进一步优化疫情防控政策给两国人员和经贸往来带来的便利，将为中文经贸合作创造更多发展机遇。 葛巧棣副市长感谢中国驻文莱大使馆促成此次商贸对接会活动，热情洋溢地宣介义乌的无限商机，介绍义乌中国小商品城情况，并欢迎文莱企业家到义乌投资经商兴业，感受义乌的商业魅力。 陈嘉兴会长介绍了文莱贸易投资环境情况，期待双方加强联系，开展务实合作，共谋发展。 李峰行长介绍了中国银行在文莱开展跨境金融服务业务，表示将为中文双边贸易和区域经济合作提供有力金融支持。 与会嘉宾与义乌代表团一行就义乌市场采购贸易方式的具体实践进行了深入交流。
input_url: 20230317123823/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202303/20230303395119.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230317123905/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202303/20230303395119.shtml
date: 2023-03-17 00:00:00
translated_title: Counselor Kang Wen Attended Yiwu-Brunei Business Matchmaking Meeting and Delivered a Speech
translated_content: On March 4, Yiwu-Brunei Business Matchmaking Meeting was held in Brunei, which was attended by Mr. Kang Wen, Economic and Commercial Counselor of the Chinese Embassy in Brunei, Mr. Ge Qiaodi, Vice Mayor of Yiwu City, Zhejiang Province, Mr. Chen Jiaxing, President of Brunei-China "One Belt, One Road" Association, Mr. Li Feng, President of Bank of China (Hong Kong), Brunei Branch, who delivered a speech. Mr. Li Feng, President of Bank of China (Hong Kong) Brunei Branch, attended and delivered a speech. The delegation of Yiwu Municipal Government, member enterprises of Brunei Belt and Road Association, relevant business associations and enterprises in Brunei, and representatives of the Economic and Commercial Section of the Chinese Embassy in Brunei participated in the above activities. Counselor Kang Wen said that the two countries are close neighbors across the sea, friends with mutual trust and partners for common development. Despite the impact of the epidemic, the effectiveness of the "Belt and Road" project has been outstanding, leading to substantial growth in bilateral trade, hitting a record high for two consecutive years, and China is still Brunei's largest source of foreign investment and the top three trading partners, which fully demonstrates the resilience and vitality of the two countries' economic and trade cooperation. This Business Matchmaking Conference is the first time in three years since the outbreak of the Xin Guan epidemic that Chinese government departments led enterprises to Brunei to organize activities to promote Chinese commodities, showing the determination and confidence of the two countries to continue to deepen economic and trade exchanges and join hands to accelerate the economic recovery in the post-epidemic period after the successful fight against the epidemic. At present, China is accelerating the construction of a new development pattern, insisting on promoting a high level of opening up to the outside world, promoting the construction of "One Belt, One Road" high-quality development, as well as further optimizing the epidemic prevention and control policies to the two countries to facilitate the exchange of people, trade and economic relations, which will create more opportunities for the Chinese economic and trade cooperation. Deputy Mayor Ge Qiaodi thanked the Chinese Embassy in Brunei for facilitating this business matchmaking event, enthusiastically promoting the unlimited business opportunities in Yiwu, introducing the situation of Yiwu China Commodity City, and welcoming Brunei entrepreneurs to invest and do business in Yiwu, and experiencing the charm of Yiwu's business. Mr. Chen Jiaxing, President of Brunei, introduced Brunei's trade and investment environment and expected both sides to strengthen ties, carry out practical cooperation and seek common development. President Li Feng introduced Bank of China's cross-border financial service business in Brunei, and said that it would provide strong financial support for Chinese bilateral trade and regional economic cooperation. The guests and Yiwu delegation had in-depth exchanges on the specific practice of Yiwu market procurement trade mode.
english_summary: On March 4, the Yiwu-Brunei Business Matchmaking Meeting was held in Brunei. Representative of Chinese Embassy in Brunei Economic and Commercial Counselor, Mr. Kang Wen, Vice Mayor of Yiwu City, Mr. Ge Qiaodi, President of Brunei-China 'One Belt, One Road' Association, Mr. Chen Jiaxing, and President of Bank of China (Hong Kong), Brunei Branch, Mr. Li Feng all delivered speeches. Despite the impact of the pandemic, the 'Belt and Road' project has been effective, leading to substantial growth in bilateral trade, hitting a record high for two consecutive years. The meeting was attended by representatives from the Chinese Embassy in Brunei, member enterprises of the Brunei Belt and Road Association, relevant business associations and enterprises in Brunei, and the Yiwu Municipal Government. This Business Matchmaking Conference showed the determination and confidence of the two countries to continue to deepen economic and trade exchanges and join hands to accelerate the economic recovery in the post-epidemic period after the successful fight against the epidemic.
