html: nan
title: 钟曼英公参出席第六届进博会新加坡推介会并致辞
resulting_text: 为贯彻落实中新两国领导人新达成的共识，推动中新全方位高质量的前瞻性伙伴关系发展，4月25日，中国国际进口博览局、国家会展中心（上海）和新加坡工商联合总会在新加坡共同举办第六届中国国际进口博览会新加坡推介会。 驻新加坡使馆经商处钟曼英公参出席并致辞。在致辞中，钟曼英公参宣介了近期中国经济发展情况、中国政府关于进一步扩大开放等方面的政策举措，解读了中新两国双边关系取得的系列务实成果，欢迎更多新加坡企业赴华参加第六届进博会。 中国国际进口博览局副局长刘福学、新加坡企发局中国司副司长林思伶、新加坡工商联合总会中国暨北亚工商组第一副主席黄山忠、中国银行新加坡分行行长程军以及中新两国相关机构和企业代表近200人出席活动.
input_url: 20230428035922/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202304/20230403406654.shtml
returned_url: https://web.archive.org/web/20230430163138/http://www.mofcom.gov.cn/article/zwgk/gkbnjg/202304/20230403406654.shtml
date: 2023-04-28 00:00:00
translated_title: Councillor Chung Man Ying Attends and Speaks at the 6th Singapore Promotion Seminar at the Fair
translated_content: In order to implement the consensus reached by the leaders of China and Singapore and promote the development of China-Singapore all-round and high-quality forward-looking partnership, on April 25, China International Import Expo Bureau (CIIEB), the National Convention and Exhibition Center (Shanghai) and the Singapore Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SCI) co-organized the 6th China International Import Expo (CIIE) Promotion Seminar in Singapore. Mr. Zhong Manying, Minister of Economic and Commercial Affairs of the Embassy in Singapore, attended and delivered a speech. In his speech, Mr. Zhong Man Ying introduced the recent economic development in China, the Chinese government's policy initiatives on further opening up, explained the series of pragmatic results achieved in the bilateral relationship between China and Singapore, and welcomed more Singaporean enterprises to participate in the 6th CIIE in China. Mr. Liu Fuxue, Deputy Director General of China International Import and Exposition Bureau (CIIEB), Mr. Lim Si Ling, Deputy Director General of China Division, Singapore Enterprise Development Board (SEDB), Mr. Huang Shanzhong, First Vice President of China and North Asia Business Group of Singapore Business Federation (SBF), Mr. Cheng Jun, President of Bank of China (Singapore) Branch, as well as representatives from relevant organizations and enterprises of both countries attended the event.
english_summary: On April 25, the 6th China International Import Expo (CIIE) Promotion Seminar was held in Singapore, co-organized by the China International Import Expo Bureau (CIIEB), the National Convention and Exhibition Center (Shanghai), and the Singapore Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SCI). Chung Man Ying, Minister of Economic and Commercial Affairs of the Embassy in Singapore, attended and delivered a speech. He introduced the recent economic developments in China, the Chinese government's policy initiatives on further opening up, and explained the series of pragmatic results achieved in the bilateral relationship between China and Singapore. He also encouraged more Singaporean enterprises to participate in the 6th CIIE in China.
